Your second phrase doesn't follow as conclusion from the first. Why do you claim it has a central point of failure?AFAIU it was like MasterCoin, an IPO-like thing. All coins were created in the genesis and distributed proportionally to initial investors. There's no inflation. IIRC, once the malleability issue was revealed, some assholes started a DoS with it. They were mutating every transaction that went through them, only to fuck the network. That's probably what accounts for these +300kBTC. They were not stolen. Watch out.Ok, Bitcoin being defined as "foreign currency" in Switzerland might be interesting, because Switzerland enjoys a good deal of financial freedom (relatively to the rest of the world, at least). AFAIK, people there are free to have bank accounts in foreign currencies, use them as they want etc. But in many (most?) places of the world, such definition would be very negative. In many jurisdictions, foreign currency is something "common folk" can barely touch, and when they're allowed to, regulations are strict. Just take Argentina as an example. Bitcoin being defined as foreign currency there would be almost the equivalent of banning it. Why would you need to be connected to that many full nodes? I don't see the need for so many connections. And SPV nodes only care about the transactions that concern them, which are always a very small set compared to the total that passes by on the network.Aren't you mixing bytes and bits there? Bps normally means bits per second, not bytes. And 8 bits only for the hashes seems too low. You only get 256 different values, with 200tps you'd have lots of collisions. 8 bytes on the other hand is even more than the poster you replied to was talking about (he mentioned 32 bits, so 4 bytes). Wow... This presumption of knowledge of yours reminded me of this brilliant quote, perfectly applicable here:The subjective reasoning of millions can't involve "lots of math", and can't be modeled by it. You can only reach meaningful conclusions through praxeology. And, if you were to actually try that, you'd probably recognize one day that you should not try to impose top-down rulings instead of organic bottom-up organizations, as if people were peons on a chessboard to be manipulated by enlightened "planners". Anyways... that's not the topic here, I don't want to derail this very interesting thread, so I'll stop here. It would be nice if you could also try not to let insults on the air like this every time you can... Inflation is evil because it takes purchasing power away from currency holders (and, in general, the poorer you are, the higher the percentage of your savings is based on currency), and gives it to the firsts to receive the newly printed money, namely governments, banks and those well connected to them. But even worse than that, inflation is evil because it creates capital destructive business cycles. All this crisis the world is living now would not have happened if central banks did not have the power to inflate their currencies in order to manipulate interest rates.Oh, and BTW, the 2% rate you talk about, it's the official estimation on price inflation. The actual monetary inflation is much higher. What means that, if money supply was stable, average prices would decrease. It's not just 2% of purchasing power you lose per year, it's much more, since you'd have to consider how lower would prices be if there was no inflation. Multiple roads.Tunnels.Bridges.Passing aroundUsing secondary identities to buy the land secretly.Buy more than the strictly necessary land and profit from the valuation of adjacent land now better connected.Railroads.Free-market collective transports (cheaper, more frequent).Free-market airports, perhaps built by airlines themselves - there would be many of them.No cumbersome airport regulations nor TSA, speeding up boarding time and bringing the price down. Perhaps planes would become more practical than buses/trains even for not so long distances like 200km or so.Etc etc etc.As you can see, there are many solutions to the "problem" you raise. And I'm just an ordinary guy, with no particular experience in the field. Imagine what millions of people competing freely would be able to build. And important to note: they do happen to have a monopoly in charge of building roads, which was simply not doing its job. They handled the situation as they could. Considering it was a poor region when all this started, it's quite impressive!Very interesting article this one. Thank you for the link, herzmeister.BTW, Wenzhouneses should be informed about Bitcoin. Something tells me they'll love it!  For the "last mile" aspect of most network services - not only roads, but also water supply, sewage, electric wiring etc - probably the easiest way is through contractually shared property, like condos. The condo I live in already owns the "streets" to its parking lots. It could also share the property of adjacent streets. This would not be financed though taxation based on demagogic criteria, but by fees according to your stake in the shared property. I bet condominiums would also look for alternative means of earning money, like charging for parking spots, or eventually the ideas you raised.Obviously, that's not the only possible solution. Nobody can actually predict what would be the ideal solution. The only thing that is certain is that free-markets will come up with a better arrangement (cost-benefit-wise) than monopolies. Professor Walter Block has already written an entire book on this subject. Its digital version is available for free. Here: https://mises.org/document/4084/ Please don't replicate the same silly attacks people tend to use to discredit Bitcoin. The financial incentive behind the technology is what brings lots of the manpower, business and infrastructure it has today. Not to acknowledge that is to be willingly blind.If the defect was only on the betacoin, then the damages would be restrained to those who willingly converted stable coins into beta coins. That's not an issue to me. When you do so, you accept the risks.Hey, this very feature (allowing the redemption of arbitrary betaCoins built on top of it) could actually be the among the firsts betaCoins.  If it works well, it will set up a great platform for experimentation!Thank you. I've just watched this video following a recommendation of jron, and what I could get from it was the following:Am I getting closer? Your explanations kind of hinted me in that direction too.Thank you! The betaCoin model is interesting, but I'd just make one import remark though: in this model, there's no financial incentive for people to migrate from bitcoin stable to bitcoin beta, since stable coins will always be more valuable than beta coins. This means that, from a monetary point of view, this beta risks being just a testnet++. Not many people will transfer their coins into it (it is not a reasonable investment strategy), and without much aggregated value, would it really have enough manpower behind it? If Gavin and Garzik are being fully employed to work on Bitcoin right now, it's precisely because bitcoins are valuable to lots of people. If there was a technical way to ensure people can get their beta coins converted back into stable coins at the same rate (i.e., pegging), then things could be different. But I don't see how could that be possible.Anyways, I came here for another reason. I'm really interested in Zerocoin and I'd like to understand how it works. I can understand the basics of public key cryptography, and blind signature - although the math behind these algorithms are things I simply "trust to be true".  But Zerocoin... damn, is that complicated! I tried reading the paper once it got out, and I couldn't understand a thing.Is there an easier explanation somewhere, that could help technical people without a background in cryptography research to grasp the concept?Thanks Uma bitcoin.Duas bitcoins.Quantas bitcoins você gastou?Nesse uso o feminino soa normal pra mim... Normalmente eu digo uma/duas bitcoins. Mas quando falo do sistema uso o masculino, e se me lembrar, letra maiúscula, pois é um nome próprio: o [sistema] Bitcoin.É... tem razão. Um dólar, um euro, um real, um cruzeiro etc... praticamente todas as unidades de moedas são masculinas. A não ser coisas como uma coroa sueca/tcheca etc. I wouldn't be that sure. I don't think there's any entity practicing fractional reserves with bitcoin right now. You can't even have serious loans quoted in bitcoins, due to the volatility. But well, who knows... It doesn't matter because the whole comparison is just for fun anyway. But the metric that is being used on the bitcoin side (all bitcoins issued) is its monetary base, its M0. And the metric that's being used on the other side is the M1 of fiat currencies. IMHO it would be more accurate to use M0 on both sides, since there's no M1 for Bitcoin. "Bad" emergency hospitals would eventually be blacklisted by medical insurances. Your ambulance would probably work to/with your medical insurance, and would not take you to the blacklisted hospitals. Or at least avoid it if possible. That would of course create a strong incentive for hospitals not to be blacklisted, since being blacklisted by most insurances could drive them to bankruptcy. And that would ensure "bad hospitals" to be rare and of quick living.By the way, the assumption that you always have to go to the nearest hospital is exaggerated.He, it's funny how fast people conclude what they want to conclude. It took me only a couple minutes to come up with the answer above. And I'm just one random guy. How dare you say millions of people working freely wouldn't be able to come up with a much better solution that we cannot even imagine today?It really looks like what people against slavery abolition in the 19th century would say: "But who would do the hard work? Agriculture would collapse! We would all starve! Do you want to live in a society where people starve to death?" Do you know what exactly are they appealing for?It is to be able to tax commissions earned by exchanges as if it was a taxable service, or is it because they want bitcoins units themselves to be subject to VAT like a consumption good?The former would be bad, but well, it's just the same think for every kind of service. But the latter is much more catastrophic. Hey, that's an interesting question, not really related to Trezor but to the payment protocol itself.If you request a https page and receive a http one, your browser can clearly detect something's not right.But how does that work with PaymentRequests? AFAIK they're pushed by the payee, not requested by the payer, right? What if a malware sees that an authenticated payment request is passing by, and simply replace it by an non-authenticated one? If you know the merchant is supposed to send you an authenticated payment request, you'll realize there's something wrong. But can we really expect people to understand this? No, they don't. It's only a free market if property rights are respected. Assassination - and governments - by definition does not respect them, so it's an antithesis to free markets. Regardless of supply and demand. Do no confuse "free markets" with just "markets" or even "economic laws" (like the fact that supply and demand determine prices). Economic laws are inexorable and thus, of course, apply to all sort human actions, including those which do not respect property rights, like assassination, slavery. theft and everything else government/mafias do.It's just that....Sorry for the off-topic.
This phrase is a self-contraction. If you don't see it that way, that's because you don't truly understand what free market means.Hint: free market != market. The former is just a subset of the latter.Ex: an assassination market doesn't belong in free markets.Same thing for governments. Their coercive nature is incompatible with the premises of free markets.  If something is really liquid, I can't understand how it won't affect the money supply in a way or another.The only reason to hold money is because we expect to be able to exchange it for something else. If there's something almost as liquid as money and which also happens to be a stable form of investment (think reputable bonds), then people might hold some of this asset instead of "raw money".You don't even need fractional reserves as is to have monetary aggregates higher than the monetary base.Imagine some bitcoin bank one day becomes famous, and many people start using its services. Among such services, there's the possibility of converting part of your bitcoin balance to bitcoin quoted bonds offered by the bank. You configure to have 50% of your account on bonds, and the bank automatically sells/buys them every time some money leaves or enters your account. Aren't you using bonds as money after all? And if eventually you make a transfer to somebody else in the same bank who also has his account configured to have a percentage of its balance in bonds, the bank doesn't even need to actually sell and buy back again, it can just transfer the bonds at current market price.There you have it: a very liquid asset being used as money. A monetary aggregate. And that's not fractional reserves.So, answering OP, yeah, I do think some level of monetary aggregates will eventually appear someday, if bitcoin succeeds. Fractional reserves or not. And of course, that should push the price of bitcoin down (or prevent it from going upper) to some extent. You might want to change your investment strategy from that moment on. But let's not forget though: monetary aggregates can't expand infinitely like the monetary base of fiat currencies can. And since the monetary base of bitcoins is capped, I think we can expect monetary aggregates on top of it to be limited too. When I was in Frankfurt some years ago, I went to a night club that was on the same building of the ECB. It'd be the perfect spot for such a party.  Bumping this thread to ask if there's a copy of OP's text somewhere else?BitInstant blog is no longer up.Thanks. Thank you again for your detailed explanation.Ok, so here there's no BitUSD inflation, as the amount given to Mr. L is the same amount that will be destroyed.Are the 1000 BitUSD destroyed too?In this case, no new BitUSD remain. There's only BitUSD in circulation while there are open short positions. The supply of BitUSD is proportional to the amount of people willing to hold short positions in BitUSD. This all sounds weird to me. Price is a function of supply and demand. I can understand how currency boards peg their currencies because they manipulate the supply. Here you have a supply that's linked to the number and appetite of speculators betting against the asset. Why would such a supply adjust itself to the demand in order to maintain a peg is something that goes beyond my understanding of financial instruments. I guess I'll just have to follow and see how it works out.I keep my suggestion though: please consider implementing the possibility of setting up a currency-board-like structure in your development. You have an interesting set of features there, this one would add nicely. Thank you for your answer.Just bear with me a few more, please. Let me see if I got how this works.Mr S believes the price of BitUSD (not USD!) will fall in relation to BitShares. Mr L believes the opposite.They settle for a short vs long agreement. Let's suppose there's no leverage (can there be?). Let's also suppose the agreed price is 1 BTS = 1 BitUSD.Each one puts in 1k BTS, so a 2k BTS reserve in total, which, if I understood correctly, is the short collateral.Is Mr L now granted the right to issue 1k BitUSD? Would he be able to issue (X*Y)k BitUSD if the agreed price was 1BTS = X BitUSD and leverage was Y:1?If the price of BitUSD goes down, then MrL is already losing money as his stash is going down. But how much exactly will Mr S win? Can Mr L force the collateral to be used when selling his position? Let's say by selling his 1k BitUSD against the collateral, he recovers 800 BTS. Mr S now has 1,2k BTS, and Mr L only 800BTS. That's how it works? What happens to the sold BitUSD, goes on to circulate on the open market? There's our inflation of BitUSD? Wouldn't that make the supply of BitUSD proportional to the volume of short vs long positions made on the system?If the price of BitUSD goes up in relation to BTS then Mr L is already a winner as his stash will be worth more than before. The collateral of MrS would have to be sold in order to buy BitUSD in the open market you say. What happens to the BitUSD bought? Is it destroyed, to account for the previous issuance? Or is it given to MrL? The fact that the collateral was twice the money MrS had put himself would give him an advantage, unless of course we assume his leverage to be twice as large. I'm a bit lost here.I still don't see why would the price of BitUSD track that of USD though. That would only happen if people on the open market would be willing to trade 1 USD for an amount of BitUSD that's almost always the same (no need for parity but you need a almost-fixed exchange rate), but where does this guarantee come from?And how would BitUSD be bootstrapped? If it can only be issued when there's a long vs short position, which would be the price reference of the very first position?Thank you for your patience. Using the main bitcoin blockchain has its advantages, mainly being able to count with the high quality development effort/team that Bitcoin has, not to mention its strong chain security.But it has some disadvantages too, namely the fact that you might end up having to pay more expensively for you transactions. A multi-chain approach like this BitShares also make scalability much more easier, you only need to handle the chains you wish to work with. It's an interesting approach.As an experienced bitcoiner, you should know that being illegal doesn't prevent some things to thrive. And you might find some jurisdictions in which it would be accepted. Currency boards do exist and do manage to keep their pegging for decades. The "only" constraint is keeping large reserves. In the case of mastercoin, these reserves would need to be quite high. But besides that, what are the "fundamental economic flaws" you see?I was going to suggest you implement the same currency-board-like thing in your system, it would make it richer.You don't NEED with capital letters like that. But it's a good plus to have.I'm still trying to understand that. If I understand well, when you go long on an asset, it's basically as if you were using borrowed money to buy larger volumes of that asset than you'd be able to do with your money. If this asset goes up in price, you are able to pay your debt and also make a larger absolute gain. But if it goes down, your "reserve" will be burn out quite quickly. For ex. in a 10:1 leverage, a -10% oscillation would force your position to be liquidated so your debts could be payed.Now back to BitUSD.... how is that a long position in USD? Isn't that a coin issued by someone? Anybody can issue more BitUSD as long as they deposit the necessary reserves in BitShares? So, let's say I believe the price of USD will go up in relation to BitShares, how do I proceed? I set aside, say, $1k worth of BitShares on a 10:1 long position and then I can issue myself 10k BitUSD? If the value of the USD goes near 10% down in relation to BitShares, miners would be able to confiscate my reserves of BitShares and destroy the corresponding BitUSD, I assume. But how would miners decide which is the "protocol-official" price of USD in relation to BitShares? Do you intend to create some price publishing mechanism like those in Mastercoin, and each BitWhatever issuers would decide which publish(er) to use? I'm not sure I follow how you intend to track the price of arbitrary assets.I see only two ways (which are similar when you think about it) of doing such a thing:Contractual backing: I, the issuer of currency C, am contractually bound to give you a certain amount of asset A in exchange for a certain amount of C. C is just a substitute for A."Currency board" way: I, issuer of currency C, keep large reserves of asset A, whose price I want C to track. I sell A to buy C whenever C's price goes below the price of A ('deleting' the C bought), and I issue more C and buy more A with it when the price of C goes above the price of AThe currency board isn't contractually obliged to redeem your currency, but in the end it's as if it was doing it indirectly. And for it to be speculation-proof, it has to hold 100% reserves.Colored-coins and OpenTransactions go the first way. Mastercoin goes the second way, with an interesting particularity: The reserve is in Mastercoin, not in the asset whose price is being tracked. That introduces extra risks, because if the price of mastercoin goes down, so does the value of the reserve. If the reserve goes below 100%, it's subject to speculative attacks. So, in order for it to be safe, the reserve must be kept much above 100%. The great advantage is that you can track arbitrary prices in a fully decentralized, pseudonymous and transparent way. The protocol can ensure the reserve won't be stolen, how much is held in reserve is a public data, the reserves can't be seized by desperate governments etc. The disadvantage is that the one holding the reserves would be paying a high opportunity cost. Why would you put so much money aside? There needs to be some gain opportunity for private individuals to voluntary issue currencies in this scheme.Anyways.... how exactly does BitShare sub-currencies intend to track arbitrary asset prices? I was thinking it was going to follow the Mastercoin strategy, since among your principles you list 'no-trust' and 'decentralization'. But I read the part in which supposedly you explain how BitUSD tracks the price of USD and I confess I don't get it. You talk about short and long positions, but what's tracking the price? Can somebody explain me like I'm five? You want to mimic these anti-ASIC alt currencies? Why? What's the point? This assumption that ASICs lead to centralization is false. How many thousands people are hashing right now, with ASICs?OTOH, preventing the use of specialized hardware will give more power and profit to botnets. Even if there's never a botnet large enough to overpower the network, the simple fact that these parasites can make more profit is disgusting in itself.Not to mention that your algo seems much more complicated (and thus, bug prone) than simply hashing with a well-known hash algo.Anyways... your call. That's not a major problem either, I guess. I'll just keep reading. Alice is an escrow agent with good reputation but with an unresolved dispute that's taking some time. What's stopping her from creating escrow agent "Bob", sign and publish message saying "Alice == Bob", and then accept new transactions as Bob?This restriction you want to apply there seems useless, and I don't think the platform should make such decisions in the name of its users. As long as unresolved disputes are public data, it's up to people to decide whether they want to use an escrow which is taking time to resolve its disputes. BitShare will arbitrarily limit the size of the UTxO set?That sounds a crippling limitation to me. How can you know the good size? Just look all the discussions the maximum block size limit caused. Arbitrarily limiting the UTxO size is no different. IMHO you should reconsider that. I'm reading it right now, but haven't gone too far. It's not like colored coins. It seems to have a coin of its own, and the network allows miners to enforce on their own some rules that mean some people will loose or earn money. For example, you short some asset, and then the price goes up to such a point that your reserves must be depleted, a miner can do that without needing you to sign any transaction. You can't do that with Bitcoin, thus you can't do that with colored coin.It's very interesting, I'll keep reading. By the way, just a little pedantic correction: an "axiom" is a self-evident truth, something like "the shortest path between two points is a straight line". What you outline as "axioms" for your ideal free market financial system are more like "principles", "objectives" etc, not really axioms. They're not self-evident truths, they're more like something you believe should be respected/followed. And btw, good set of principles. ;-) EDIT: Oh, and btw, keeping the pedantic observations, you might want to rephrase the "zero-sum" principle. A free-market is not a zero-sum game. When two people trade, they create value for each other. The aggregated value in the system does increase. I do understand what you mean by zero-sum in this context: you mean something like the Lavoisier principle, that is, nothing is created nor destroyed, only transformed ("transferred" in your case )I would avoid the "zero-sum" expression precisely because the term is used by free-market detractors, in an misguided attempt of portraying free-markets as useless to society as a whole ("for somebody to gain, somebody else has to lose!"). They're dead wrong on that, but by saying your system aims at a "zero-sum" might give them ammunition. The FBI has control over the site, including its database. They can query it and discover how much money he made on commissions. OK.Sure. I just wouldn't call that "AML". The idea of hashing one's IBAN for example, could be enough.No, that would be theft. Money laundering would be when/if the thief makes the stolen money a fake part of some official, declared income. That normally only needs to happen for large amounts of money, as for anything small, the thief could just spend it under the radar, without having to launder anything.I'm being pedantic because "money laundering" is increasingly becoming a magic word, like "terrorism", used to justify all sorts of things. Definitely. I wasn't aware of that. >3M USD in BTC, not 3M BTC... Ouch... if you what you quoted is true, I must retreat what I said.You found that on the >30 pages PDF? I hope his trial (if he gets one) get lots of media coverage. I mean, TV and all. This was no ordinary drug dealer, just read his quotes. It would be a good opportunity to tell all those truths on mainstream media. AFAIK, he has never hurt anyone, but he will probably end up serving more time in jail than rapers.EDIT: It seems he was a murderer, what would be horrible if true. And incompatible with many of his quotes on Forbes, by the way. It was likely the case: http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/1nl58n/silkroad_domain_states_this_hidden_site_has_been/ccjkjds
Are you talking about big traders operating under such system, or the system itself?Because saying the latter is like saying e-bay is legally responsible for, say, regulatory compliance in the selling of every electronics (or whatever) that goes through them. I know some jurisdictions are that authoritarian (Brazil comes immediately to my mind), but there must be some others where you could place your business and just be fine...I've used localbitcoins sometimes, and I doubt they have any AML compliance on their side. I obviously don't have on my side, I'm just an individual trading a few bucks, not a professional. So... are you calling me dumb?   Indeed I am... I can barely follow the most discussed topics here and on reddit. The devlist I barely read at all.Thanks for the update anyways!Perhaps the most authoritarian ones will attempt, but I don't think they'll manage. They can't even stop file-sharing. There will always be jurisdictions in which mining will remain an unregulated activity, and block generators would just put their servers there. I don't think that'll ever be a serious problem. If you're really worried about this - IMHO you shouldn't worry that much - perhaps it'd be better to focus on more scalable darknet protocols instead. Perhaps using bitcoin for funding darknet nodes, I don't know... Anyways, it looks to me your problem here isn't simply "keep block generation decentralized", but more like "being able to communicate without significant latency and without revealing your physical location". In other words, a way for dissident pool operators to hide themselves in a highly totalitarian world. The solution is probably outside the Bitcoin protocol. Wait, so you've managed to come up with a way for SPV nodes to satisfyingly verify that an "evil cartel of block generators" isn't defrauding everybody? The debate of whether to keep the crippling 1Mb limit for blocks or to let it grow by removing said limit is finally over?That's brilliant! It's great to see you've managed to found some common ground. Seriously, no irony, that's a relief to me. I was confident an actual fork (with two different blockchains surviving) was inevitably ahead of us. Blockchain.info says it's a double-spent: http://blockchain.info/rejected (Ctrl+F your tx id) What if the backdoor is in a piece you chose not to validate? (just so this is crystal clear: I don't believe this is a serious danger, as I do believe in open source.. my point is just to show that the same applies to the blockchain, which is also open)I'm not sure which modifications you're talking about (that long thread from the author of Armory perhaps?), but with the current Merkle Tree I believe this is already possible to some extent. I can validate the coinbase transaction only to certify no miner is inflating the money supply more than what's allowed by the protocol. I could perhaps also request past transactions in order to validate that the output crediting my address really does have the money it claims to have, all the way until a coinbase. By only doing that to transactions that concern me - and always checking the headers, PoW etc, ain't I doing a "validation in pieces"? If every user´s client does at least that, doesn't the chain gets entirely validated in the end?No structural changes would be needed, AFAIK. Unless by "protocol changes" you mean new network messages in order to exchange such partial data, in case they don't exist already.It's done continuously by a machine, not by human beings. The actual work of sporadically auditing the code is probably bigger than the work of letting the full node running. When you don't read and fully understand the entire source code of your bitcoin client, you are trusting developers to always follow the rules faithfully - to not steal/spy from/on users by inserting a backdoor etc. But if users are not reading and fully understanding the source code, because they're incapable or not willing to do so, what incentive is there for developers to behave quite so faithfully?I'm repeating myself, but it seems important to do so: there will always be more honest people willing and capable of running a full node than there will be honest people willingly and capable of reading and understanding such a complex C++ code as that of bitcoin. The barriers are incomparable. Running a full node is simple, and will be always cheaper than either hiring a C++ expert to do the code-parsing for you, or going through the huge learning curve yourself. Actually the option of hiring someone only transfers the trust, so you have to go through the learning curve if you want to be 100% sure. There's no multiple years learning curve necessary for someone to run a full node.So, please, let's quit the drama. If the "everybody can validate the source because it's open" sentence is really true and justifies the trust we have on open source software like Bitcoin, then there's no reason for the sentence "everybody can validate the blockchain because the data is open/public" not to be equally true, and an equivalent justification for SPV clients to trust in its integrity. I've been saying this for a while too. But I haven't seen any list of all currencies' M0s so far. @btcdrak, the point I'm trying to make is: right now, the only truly safe way of storing bitcoins is by doing it yourself, and offline.It will not always remain like this, obviously. Hardware-wallets, combined with multi-sig and probably also nLockTime would certainly allow a great level of security for everyone, including those who have no idea of what I'm talking about. Perhaps even those twins' ETF would as well.But that's not the case right now. So, if you're day-trading, you should consider into the risks of your operations that your account may just be emptied. Even if you take all possible digital-hygiene measures, the exchange's account may be hacked/seized/etc, and your money will be gone.All that said, I'm also curious as to how has this hack happened, as it settles a dangerous precedent. My mistake then. But again, the risks are almost the same. MtGox fiat account could be seized, the entire site hacked and become insolvent, or his personal account hacked. If he intended to keep a fiat balance, it would be safer to do so in a traditional bank that can reverse transactions.Perhaps he was keeping his fiat there because of MtGox's liquidity problems. Or perhaps he was a day-trader. These possibilities make it much more understandable. But if you have fiat on Gox and you're not willing to spend this money any time soon, then I'd advice to withdraw it. Even if takes months to come to your bank account, it's safer like this than letting it sitting there. I'd say that MtGox is more vulnerable to account seizures than most banks... it has already happened to their US-domiciled accounts, are you so sure it won't happen to their main accounts in Japan?EDIT: By the way, my post above is not entirely incorrect when you consider only the quoted part I was replying to:You should not trust the largest exchange with your coins, but that doesn't mean there's nothing you can do. Were you doing any operation at the site that would require the Yubikey code?Advanced malwares could put themselves in between you and MtGox, and if you request a withdraw to address A, they could change that to address B without you noticing, and make you authorize that via the Yubikey code. That'd be a very advanced malware though, as it would have to somehow replace your browser by a bogus one.EDIT: Just saw your post on reddit saying that you were not awake while this happened, what rules out my supposition.Come on. Not wanting to be mean, it's a shame that you've lost your money and I hope this mystery gets solved, but of course there was something you could have done, and you know it very well: you could have stored your coins yourself, offline.This is to everyone who stores their money on Gox and others: Seriously people, Bitcoin empowers you to be your own bank. To have no counter-party risk. And you keep letting your money in bank-like institutions? What's to prevent MtGox servers to be hacked, and eventually even its cold wallet stolen like bitfloor? Or, even more likely, what if they're raided and all the money seized, à la Cyprus?Store your bitcoins yourself.If that sounds "too geeky" and you're not willing to go through the learning curve right now, then perhaps Bitcoin and you are not ready for each other for the moment. Interesting projects like Trezor are on development, and they could bring the two of you together again soon enough. Again OP, don't take my post in a bad way, I am really sorry this has happened to you. But please don't claim that you haven't been warned - I'm definitely not the first one saying this -, or that there are no ways to hold Bitcoins safely, because you know that's not the case. Actually, there shouldn't be any significant difference in that case. Unless you do lots of telnet, ssh and other frequent-tiny-packets protocols, Tor shouldn't really increase your bandwidth usage. Not really: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=186038.msg1944078#msg1944078But anyway, I was just trying to explain why I think Panamá is a decent candidate, not criticizing you for not having put it there from the start. I can't answer the question, but shouldn't Panamá at least be on the list?They have no central bank. They're also "dollarized". The Panamanian government has much less motivation to resit Bitcoin than most others, as it doesn't control money supply (so it doesn't feed itself from inflation) and it doesn't even have a central bank cartel to look after. Of course, when pressure comes from uncle Sam, they may eventually fold. But that applies to all of them. A few years ago a German family got asylum in US for exactly this reason (being persecuted by their home government due to their children's education choice).Too bad this particular family didn't get the chance.What will they do with these kids I wonder? They are old enough not to accept this slavery. Will the government just throw them in prison if they resist coercive indoctrination? Do you know who is the maintainer by the way? The first 50 BTC produced in the genesis block are not spendable, that's not false. But other UTxO sent to the same address are, that was my confusion. (see CYAM's post above) Thanks for clarifying. IIRC, the genesis block coinbase is not spendable. So, not even Satoshi could send them back to you. Well, fixed exchange rate is what they seek, but how do you call the institutions themselves? Currency board is, to my knowledge, the widely used terminology.Okay, that's a good point.But what about currencies like the Bahamian Dollar or Panamanian Balboa?The former is decades old, and the latter is more than a century old already. And they're both pegged to the USD.Sorry, can't watch the video right now.Interesting. Thank for the example.Well, small volatility is far from being the norm on the cryptocurrency world. We can't expect MasterCoin being any different.Even when you exclude the cases of currency boards acting like a central bank, i.e., manipulating interest rates as well as the exchange rate? This combination has shown to be very dangerous, but if all you want is to keep the exchange rate, I don't know....Do The Bahamas or Panamá hold such large war chests? All the examples of currencies pegged to the euro?Anyways, it's clear that high reserves will be very important in MasterCoin's case. Good thing the reserve volumes are public knowledge, at least. Well, that's exactly what a currency board is, and there are many in the world which have managed to keep operating for decades now. Even Hong Kong, considered the freest economy both by the Fraser Institute and the Heritage Foundation, uses a currency board to issue HKD.The biggest difference, tough, is that currency boards normally have reserves in the same asset they tie the exchange rate of their currency to. So, if your currency board wants a fixed exchange rate with the dollar, it will hold dollar reserves, if it's with the euro, it will hold euro reserves and so on. Here, the reserves are in one asset (mastercoin), while the exchange rate is supposed to be pegged to another asset (gold, fiat, whatever). I know no example of a currency board operating this way and I ignore whether it's feasible or not.This is true, but remember that such criteria only influences the demand side of the equation. Prices comprise both demand and supply. If the demand is lower, just make a lower supply until you get the same price.Think of water and diamonds, for instance. The former is much more valuable to human beings than the latter, but due to its extremely higher supply, its price is much lower.I'm not sure I follow your reasoning. Could you explain me like I'm five?
Not wanting to be pedantic, but let's stop naming these currency issuers "escrows", shall we? They're not escrows. They're much closer to the concept of currency boards than that of an escrow. Just realized today was the last day to "get in", and decided I should read the document.I'm having a hard time understanding your currency board thing (that you name "escrow").If I'm to make a "goldcoin", the asset I should base my currency board on should be gold. If it's USDCoin, it should be USD, and so on. It should not be MasterCoin.You cannot peg the price of something to two different assets...Did I just read you document too fast and missed something? EDIT: I think I got it. The reserves of your currency board are in MasterCoin, but the price you're tracking is that of a third asset. You buy/sell reserves in order to push the price your user coin to your target. Interesting.Sounds risky... I'm not really sure it's doable. I've never heard of any currency board operating this way. That green clock up there kinda tells me I don't have the time to fully understand the economics behind it... guess I'll just have to buy after the deadline if I realize it's doable. Nothing has intrinsic value.Value is subjective, it's an opinion people have on stuff. Therefore it cannot be an intrinsic attribute of the valued thing. Saying something has intrinsic value equals saying value is/can be objective, what's dangerously false. (Marxism is entirely supported by this theoretical mistake, for instance) Congrats!Do you consider using the payment protocol under development?That would cover the compatibility issue mentioned by Ego, as we can expect that protocol to become a standard. Forcing people to pay VAT when selling bitcoins is practically equivalent to forbidding official exchanges and pushing every exchange either to another jurisdiction, or to the black market.I really hope they don't actually try to enforce what they told you, and that they eventually come to their senses and change their stance. Panamá and Hong Kong have their currencies pegged to the USD for decades now, don't they?AFAIK, all cases of failed pegged currencies were in situations where the money issuers also attempted to use money creation to manipulate interest rates (or any other price). As long as it only creates and destroy currency with the goal of keeping a parity price with a foreign currency, I fail to see what's the great danger. But then his first assumption doesn't stand. I only need one router, and it's already provided by the ISP... Yeah but it is already provided by the ISP... isn't it in your case? But M1 also includes lost/stolen/"locked away" cash, if I'm not mistaken. There's simply no way to actually know how much cash (or bitcoins) is out of circulation.I still think that what we call bitcoin "market cap" is its M0 (monetary base), not M1 nor M2. Whenever (if ever) we start to have bitcoin-quoted financial instruments that are traded around as money, then we'll have to add these to the "market cap" to get a higher aggregation.I haven't found any sorted list of fiat currencies per M0 though. Please. If it's not explicitly forbidden, it is legal. The entire globe should be green.If you want to make some distinctions, you could distinguish those countries whose governments have already started attacking Bitcoin business through regulations (like US) of those who haven't done anything yet. Encrypted disks (LUKS, Truecrypt...) are also good, but you're still vulnerable to hardware key-loggers.I think the best is not to let the device accessible as Mike suggests. Either carry it always with you or lock it somewhere. Yes, that's reasonable. You can also lock it somewhere etc. I just wonder if concerned people will know about it and take necessary precautions. Not wanting to be negative or anything - Trezor is definitely a great improvement on security since our greatest worry right now are malwares - but we should note that its currently configuration makes it vulnerable to the "evil (and tech-savvy) maid attack".Somebody tech-savvy enough with physical access to your place (a maid, a boyfriend/girlfriend, a roommate etc) could deliberately infect your computer while you're not around to get the PIN. Even a hardware key-logger would suffice. Once with the PIN, s/he only needs to steal the device.I don't think that's a major risk, in the sense that it won't happen frequently, but it's worth noting anyway. Some people can't afford to fully trust those they share their living space with. Think college students for ex., particularly computer science college students who happen to share their room with people who were just put there by the residency administration. They barely know each other... I don't think that's a good idea. The default client should be specialized in handling the Bitcoin protocol. It should not be "disturbed" with other features, even the coolest ones.OTOH, a separate piece of software that interacts with the default client via its API, but has a different code base, would perhaps be interesting... (I tend to think this feature works better with lightweight clients, but anyway)You know, the unix KISS principle. I just quickly saw Gavin's blog post and this forum entry. I'm posting here because I wonder if there's any chance of considering adding the fee information in the PaymentRequest, sort of like I proposed here https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=119086.0The receiver specifies a formula in the payment request for the fee to be payed. The client software calculates the fee, but doesn't bother showing all this to the user: it just says "do you confirm paying (total) to (receiver)?.I know that adding a chained transaction also allows the merchant to add a fee, but I still prefer the solution of specifying via a PaymentRequest, since it decreases the amount of bandwidth that will be required to run a full node. Just an idea. Not of the same bank. Even if all banks fail, the size of each bank's loss will not be the same. Also, bank creditors choose how exposed they'll be (a bondholder is more exposed than a depositor, a depositor that leaves lots of liquid money in the bank is more exposed than one that invests his money somewhere else like real state, precious metals, bitcoin etc). It's perfectly reasonable and fair that those who were voluntarily more exposed end up paying a larger cut than those who took precautions to stay away from the failed bank.I respectfully disagree. It's not irrelevant. Bail-outs create a moral hazard. The certainty that you can explore this rigged game and always win, at the expense of others.A bail-in as I described would at least punish those responsible by making them lose everything. If that's the norm, even though the whole banking system continues fucked up as hell, bankers would be more prudent on their risk-taking.But of course, I agree that central banks are absurd, that they foster cartels, and that the monopoly of money is perhaps the worse economical problem the developed world faces today. Bail-ins per se won't fix that. But they might change the behavior of bankers. http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/1h0fmb/citibank_will_no_longer_process_any_transfers_to/  There is such an individual in Germany's parliament? Wow...How libertarian is he on other fronts? EU could use its own "Ron Paul".... I thought Switzerland didn't have capital gain taxes at all... I didn't get your point, oleganza.You noted some injustices that are practiced world wide. But how does that change what I said?Forcing taxvictims to pay for a bank rescue will always be less fair than what I wrote. Banking being a fucked up industry or not.
I've said it once and will repeat: there's no fairer way to deal with a bank failure than a bail-in:Current bank owners (shareholders) should lose everything.Creditors should lose the necessary amount to save the bank, starting by those who accepted more risks (like bondholders) until those who did not accept much risk (depositors). Ideally, depositors should not lose anything or very little - but if the hole was too huge, they might end up with a significant cut.These same creditors should be rewarded with ownership of the bank. For example, if you lost 10K, and in total 10G were needed to save the bank, you now must own a millionth part of the bank in shares.I can see no way to make it fairer than this. Tax victims should not have to spend a dime - that's externalizing a cost to people that had nothing to do it (imposed negative externality, moral hazard, private profit public losses etc). Only those involved with the failed bank should. Federal/national insurances of bank deposits are unfair by definition and should never have been created in the first place. This is not secret.It will not de-anonymize Bitcoin.Can you provide a better way to protect against address replacement attacks?I recognize there are critics that can be made. I, for one, never really liked the idea of a "Bitcoin Foundation". But what you just wrote is not pertinent. Garzik, every totalitarian government acts totally in the scope of its laws too. Remarkably, the more totalitarian, the vaguer the laws tend to be. I read somewhere that before 1929 and the Great Depression that number was at least an order of magnitude higher. You're confusing bitcoin keys with the certificate and key used for the address verification protocol. They are not the same. You'd still generate the bitcoin seed yourself. The virus can just put itself in the middle of the communication. It sends the attacker's key to the exchange, but display your own to you.If the exchange uses a second channel (like SMS) to confirm the public key, then perhaps it might work safely enough, as we can consider it unlikely for the attacker to control both channels.We're always assuming the user's system is under control of an attacker, so yeah, the attacker is in control of your account in the exchange as well. But what would be a correct signature? How would the exchange know that the address really belongs to you? The signature could be provided by the virus, using the attacker's private key. The virus could send his own signature to the exchange. You would confirm something on Trezor but its signature would never even reach the exchange.A certificate per device is probably the best way to counter such risk indeed. But I'd prefer if it were something more reusable, not something bound to a single exchange. Your device's certificate could have your name or a pseudonymous you choose the moment you buy it. This way it could be useful not only when buying coins from exchanges, but when doing person-to-person transfers as well. I'm only wondering if it doesn't pose a problem privacy-wise. You'd sign all your addresses with the same certificate. This certificate should never end up on the blockchain so theoretically your privacy is not vulnerable to a random observer. But those who had previously sent you money will recognize you if they ever send something again.... I guess that's a reasonable trade-off, if I'm not missing anything. This is awesome. Transparent acrylic card with holograms, buttons, LEDs and NFC tag. How futurist is that? $5 as cost seems too much for people to pass it around as they do with cash/coins, though. It's probably higher as amount than a significant number of all cash transactions done in the world. But it's still great as a gift card, or if anything, as a cool way to show people how real Bitcoin is getting. I want one.  This article is brilliant. (This is not exactly a press article, rather a blog post, so if it's not OK to be here, please mods move it. Thanks)http://athousandnations.com/2013/06/13/bitcoin-and-unbreakable-law/ Important to note: they are resisting by forbidding their individual clients to wire money to MtGox.This is an unprecedented attack. Previous attacks targeted the exchanges themselves. Yeah, but the whole idea of using escrows also depend on trust. You must trust your escrow won't collude with the other party.And btw, it seems in the example above Betty was both the person holding the encrypted data and the BTC-seller. It doesn't need to be the same person, there can be a second intermediary.It's hard to completely eliminate the need of trust, but you can make it much safer nevertheless. And eventually you could even have automated p2p exchanges (if your bank provide you an API to handle your fiat), what could be quite cool. Payment processors, for instance, could shift part or even all of their exchanges to this p2p system. Plus, I don't think classic exchanges would disappear. They would keep operating, and arbitrage would guarantee no significant price difference would last long. You might want to watch this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=173220.0 Just an example: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=173108.msg2425367#msg2425367 Wow.... they simply deny you the right to spend your money, shamelessly.This is serious. It's the most aggressive bankster attack on Bitcoin so far. Previous attacks focused the exchanges, this is targeting individuals.I suppose Israeli people may continue using solutions as localbitcoin to counter such attack. But I wonder how easy it would be for Israelis to use this solution to bring and send bitcoins internationally. If it's not simple, that might provoke price differences. What a disgusting jerk...Leaving your car open with the keys on the contact are no justification for theft. Walking with short skirts on a shady neighborhood is no justification for rape. Reacting to an armed robbery is no justification for murder. And leaving your wallet unencrypted is no justification for destroying it.The person in the wrong is always the one that commits the crime. The one that did not see it coming (even if according to your rushed judgment, "was so obvious")  is the victim.Pure brute-forcing only works against very weak passwords. You should attempt at least a dictionary attack first. There's no much point in trying totally random strings. It's not just "not funny". That's the equivalent of breaking into pieces a $500 TV or something.But anyway, I don't know how close the person is to you (your child, perhaps?) so I'll no longer say anything. It's your life.My advice: try to make the prankster remember the most he can about the password. Length, some characters, what words were in it etc. With enough information you can try to break it. Unless he's lying, he was the victim of vandalism. Stop blaming the victim, this is disgusting.
If you know nothing about the password, even a dictionary attack might not be enough - unless the password is weak, which might be the case since it was supposed to be a "prank".Honestly, if this "prankster" has a minimum of honesty, you should push him/her every fucking day to pay you back. This is theft/vandalism, not a prank.Once s/he pays you, you give him/her the encrypted file, and it's up to the person to decrypt it, not you.That assuming the prankster has a minimum decency, of course.  OT already have its cash-only mode which is as anonymous as it gets.The point of ZeroCoin, AFAICT, is precisely not to depend on a server and just use the blockchain to achieve the same result. (I confess I haven't read ZeroCoin's paper and I have no idea how it works) "Bit" is pronounced like the French word "bite", which means dick.Perhaps you should avoid asking whether your customers' mothers want to own a "bit", if you ever have francophone customers.  As DannyHamilton said. It's not a "continuous work" that gets closer from being finished with time. It's more like playing on the lottery, billions of times per second. By a simple matter of probability, eventually you'll hit the jackpot.  Yes. Once it's found, you broadcast it immediately. New transactions go to a new block. Yeah, that's what I was going to say. In the absurd event of Bitcoin being strongly banned everywhere, blocks would naturally become tiny since Bitcoin usage would become quite restrict anyway. Block sizes would be the least of our worries. Honestly I don't know... you should ask your pool operator directly what are his motives. If govs are ever to attack bitcoin, they'll do it the way they're used to: banning their usage in commerce.That's much more typical of governments, easier to enforce and more effective than trying to fight bitcoin on the technical realm.Also, let's not forget that a single honest node can already spot fraud attempts like increasing the 21M BTC limit.Oh, and let's not forget either that SPV has a high level of security too, even considering rogue full nodes. People speak as if SPV nodes would be completely vulnerable to rogue full nodes, but that's not the case. A rogue full node could potentially omit data to its SPV peers. But that risk can be considerably mitigated by just connecting to multiple full nodes: a single honest one in the bunch, and you'll receive your data.A rogue full node cannot fake a transaction to a SPV node because he'd also need a fake Merkle root, what implies in a fake block header, what can only be obtained through real proof-of-work. If a node is willing to waste all that hashpower just to fake a transaction, why not do a Finney attack in the first place? That's more effective and works against other full nodes too. It costs the same, and you get double rewards.See http://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/273/how-does-merged-mining-work Erik, it's not just words (although words often do tell a lot... I don't view you, for instance, begging for more regulation... something tells me it would make you sick with yourself, which is a good indicator on your character)But in Vesseness case, there's more to it. This lawsuit against MtGox... wtf? Plus this suspicious involvement with Bitcoinica, which is still owing thousands of bitcoins to many.I'm sorry, but I still believe this Peter Vesseness is the type of guy that won't hesitate to use the state and its regulation to rule out competitors. He looks too suspicious to me. I don't trust him. I'd love to be proved wrong, but for now, that's how I see it. My sincere condolences to you and your family. I'd suggest avoiding places like this forum for a while, and instead watch out for yourself and your loved ones.  Again, these point have nothing to do with whether a central planning is necessary to avoid market cartelization on the bitcoin network, or whether we have any technical reason to keep this damn constant there (we don't).Dropping the hard-coded block size limit is totally orthogonal to developing off-chain transaction technologies by the way. I'm for instance very optimistic about Open Transactions. But I still want to be able to transact on the blockchain daily. One thing doesn't rule out the other. This is totally unrelated and a sort of ad hominem.I'm also wary of this Vesseness guy. He seems the typical ""capitalist"" that won't hesitate to use the government to rule out his competitors. I'm not very found of the bitcoin foundation either, as you can guess.That has nothing to do with the block size limit. This damn constant should never have been created in the first place.... the day I learned about it I knew it would be a problem... Every point presented on this subject has already being addressed. Multiple times. I'm not sure we're talking the same thing here.What I call "soft limit" is not a personal limit on the blocks you'll generate or relay.What I mean would be a set of value-pairs (X,Y), where X is a limit for block acceptance, and Y is the number of block deeps a third-party block violating X needs to be in the chain for you to accept to mine on top of it.For example, let's say, for block size soft limit you set (1Mb, 1), (5Mb, 2) and (10Mb, 3). That means that if you receive a block larger than 1Mb, you refuse to build on top of it, unless it has already another block on top of it. For >5Mb, it needs to be 2 blocks deep. For 10Mb, 3 blocks deep and so on.I also strongly suggest soft-limits on "percentage of unknown transactions (not in memory pool)", because that's how a spammer-miner would create gigantic blocks: by filling it with transactions that he does not intend to broadcast, as that would require paying lots of fees.AFAIK none of these are implemented, right? Have you read about FATCA, Gabi? The choice is either disconnect yourself entirely from the banking system, or accept it. And accepting FATCA == throwing away financial privacy.Even Switzerland and Liechtenstein have bowed. Also countries like The Bahamas - which has no personal taxes of any kind, so it doesn't have any infrastructure in place to monitor people's financial life - are adapting. So yeah... the topic title isn't very inaccurate. US regulations to rule them all indeed. A display of FUD and economic ignorance in a single sentence. +1M  But if you're convinced miners would not go above the 1Mb limit, why are you afraid of replacing a hard-coded constant by voluntary/decentralized/p2p/spontaneous-order limits?When it's time to drop the limit, soft-limits configs should be available on bitcoind. The default first entry could be precisely 1Mb, just to keep as is. Block generators would have to manually change that configuration in order to start easily accepting larger blocks... otherwise they would refuse them until they're deeper.As you say, they'd likely not change it so easily. They'd only change if they consider the potential extra-revenues from adding more transactions more valuable than the risk of being orphaned - and that's precisely demand pushing for more supply.
Thank you Gavin for keeping common sense on this matter.Little suggestion to the dev team: when dropping the block size limit, also consider implementing "replacement code" that would give block generators the ability to control the block limit themselves through soft-limits. Soft-limits could be useful not only on the size of the block, but on the amount of "unknown transactions" you see in a new block - spammer-miners would have to fill their blocks with transactions that are not on other generators' memory pools. In other words, don't forget to provide the tools for block generators to collectively control the block size.You may bet that, as soon as there's no longer a hard limit on block sizes, some of these "Bitcoin should crippled and limited to a SWIFT2.0"-people will attempt to spam the network with gigantic blocks, if only to "prove their point". +1This Vesseness guy is... a "bad influence", to say the least.I won't be surprised the day he proposes mandatory white-listing of addresses.I hope Gavin knows that's the moment to jump off. You could either waste the arbitrary amount of 5430 satoshis for every colored coin, or, with the collaboration of a single mining pool, you can get colored coins transactions through even with 1 satoshi outputs. Obviously miners would request some fee to be paid, that's why I wonder if an alternate chain wouldn't be a better idea as fees could be paid with the tokens themselves, but anyway, colored coins on the main chain are already implemented, an alternate chain would have to be created from scratch. Dude, this a repeated scenario in economic theory. The "fear" that free markets cannot internalize costs when there's the possibility of a tragedy of the commons. It's similar to security in the meatspace.And guess what? It's perfectly possible to eliminate the tragedy of the commons risk through spontaneous order, as long as property rights are established and respected.And btw, private profit and public loss only happens when the state comes into the scene.Nagato, if there are real transactions paying large fees to get included, this represents real demand. Miners better attend it or Bitcoin jams!And as I explained twice on this thread already, the risk of hitting some soft limits would make miners be prudent on this. They would only increase their blocks when there's enough consensus, or when the demand is so strong that it's worth the risks. In both cases we are fine.Please, I and many others run a full node without getting nothing in return.AFAIK P2Pool is not very popular because it allegedly has large stale rates. I don't know if this claim is factual.Both things will always be the case, if you remove the hardcoded constant limit.But that's precisely what I'm saying! Block size should be controlled by everybody, with their choices and plannings, not by a centrally imposed formula. Sigh...It's not a "hope", it's an aprioristic certainty. You don't need central planning to avoid "nefarious market cartelization", just study economics if you don't believe me.Talking Bitcoin specifics: it's easy to spot an attempt of spamming by another miner. Its blocks will contain a large percentage of unknown transactions. So, just create soft limits to censor blocks with many unknown transactions. Say, if a block contains more than 10% of unknown transactions, don't build on top of it unless it's already 1 block deep. If it contains >20%, wait for it to be 2 blocks deep etc. Obviously the percentages and depths should be configurable.You can also add such limits on the block size itself. Larger than X, wait for Y depth at least. Multiple (X,Y) configurable pairs.Oh, and as a bonus, such soft limits would create an incentive for miners to relay and broadcast transactions they receive - today they have no incentive other than the counter-incentive of having to patch the software. If they keep transactions they receive from SPV nodes for themselves, they might get their block orphaned.It's quite visible that miners would only slightly raise their limits when they believe the gains from adding more paying transactions would outcome the potential losses from orphanage. That's spontaneous regulation, transaction space supply adapting to its demand. And it's absurd to claim that a remote, unclear chance of kicking out very low bandwidth miners would be so attractive as to make large bandwidth miners take the risk of losing their entire block on orphanage.Please, people, being p2p is the greatest feature of Bitcoin. P2P is all about spontaneous order - an actual verifiable fact, not a mere "hope". How can you claim to support the first and largest p2p currency and yet be against spontaneous order? Come on, D&T... I know that you know that a node should only need to broadcast a tx to all his peers if he's the very first to receive and validate it. Nodes can first send a "I have this new tx" message, which is small (tx hash size), and then upload the tx to the peers that requested it. Not all of your peers will request it from you - they're connected to other nodes too.I used the amount 10 in a conservative way... I don't think a node would upload the same transaction 10 times in average, it seems a high number to me.But it'd be interesting to see statistics on how many times a node has to upload a tx, proportionally to its amount of connections. I never saw any.I've already answered Nagato above. (and I know that you knew that too...)I'm confident that spontaneous order can easily tackle block size control. Miners can implement soft limits, not only on block size per se, but also on the percentage of unknown transactions in a block as I said above (normally you should have most transactions of the new block in your pool, if you don't, it might represent a spamming attempt).Just look at miners today: they're already extra-conservative, only to ensure the fastest possible propagation.Banking is an industry in symbiosis with the state. The problem with it are the regulations: that's the barrier of entry that makes it so hard to hop in. The cost of the business per se shouldn't be that high. Taking care of people's money (which is mostly digital today) has no reason to be a more costly business than a complex factory for instance.Just take a look at the amount of competitors that show up in places where banking regulations are less burdensome, like Panama, and compare it with other places (relatively to the country's population and GDP sizes) That's not the case. If you were online since before that block started to be built, you already received all its transactions. They're all on your transaction pool. There's no actual need to download them again (that's a performance improvement suggested by the scalability page by the way).To start mining on the next block, all you need is the header of the previous, and a sorted list of transaction hashes to build the Merkle tree. That's much less data then the entire block.Unless of course the block contains lots of transactions that are not on the memory pool, in that case you'll have to download these unknown transactions.And there you have it: an easy way to detect if a spamming attempt is in progress. If a sensible amount of transactions in the new block was not present on your memory pool, you should consider that block a spamming attempt by a miner and refuse to mine on top of it, unless of course it's already more than x blocks deep, in which case you accept it (soft limits).If the spamming miner decides to broadcast his spamming transactions, he'd hit anti-spam fee policies, and end up needing to pay other miners in the network to include its spam.Mostly everybody agrees with that. The argument is between those that think that an arbitrary formula should be invented and imposed via the protocol, and those who believe that spontaneous order (or p2p, free-market, freedom, pick your term) can implement a better and safer control on block size without the use of a centralized formula. Well, there's also a third group that thinks the 1Mb limit should be kept, but I can't take them seriously...Not only I believe spontaneous order would reach better results, I also agree with D&T when he says that setting a formula is technically (and pollitically) complicated, and potentially error-prone (might introduce bugs). I agree with your bottleneck order. Bandwidth will probably be the first, particularly with SSDs getting cheaper (you can store your UXTO in a SSD for better I/O performance). CPU can be dramatically improved as you say. Storage is not such a big deal. And if memory becomes a big deal, good caching strategies together with SSDs could circumvent it.Let's talk bandwidth then... It seems people in Kansas City already have 1Gbit/s available in their homes, up and down. Assuming the 400bytes average for bitcoin transaction that I read somewhere, that's more than 300Ktps if I'm not mistaken. That's a shitload of transactions. Even if transaction sizes were to multiple by 3 due to more usage of multi-signature features (something that I hope will happen), that would still be more than 100Ktps. What's the average number of times a full node has to upload the same transaction? It shouldn't be much, due to the high connectivity of the network. But even if you have to upload the same transaction 10 times, Google Fiber would probably allow you to handle more transactions than Visa and Mastercard combined! We're obviously not hitting such numbers anytime soon. Until there, there might be much more than 1Gbit/s available for residential links.All these desperate attempts to hold the block limit become ridiculous when we look at the numbers.I'm not sure. The greatest issue for new users is having to wait for the initial sync. If the client were to operate as an SPV in the meanwhile, and switching to full mode once initial sync is complete, I guess many more people would be OK with having a full node. Well, some would complain about how slow their computer got after they've installed this bitcoin-thing, and might be turned off. But not that much as today. So, people are expected to trust a set of "default validators". Everybody.Don't you believe that gives too much power to these validators? Okay, you may argue they could be in different jurisdictions, some of them could be anonymous entities on a darknet etc, but still.Not to mention this "default list". I'm supposing it'd be attached to the client. What a power it gives to these clients editors...Have you ever read this? https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ScalabilityMike Hearn has already made lots of good posts on this subject too, as well as Gavin. Search for their posts if you're interested. @dscoteseThe whole point here is not to save fiat currency. If you're going to hold fiat-backed tokens, well, you're accepting all the problems you talk about. The whole point here is to improve considerably the process of exchanging fiat for bitcoins. Bitcoins do no suffer the problems you cite: you can be cryptographically sure your "bank" has your coins. But unfortunately we need - and we'll keep needing for a long time - to exchange bitcoins for fiat and vice-versa. If we could render such process much more reliable and censorship-resistant, that'd be a good thing, wouldn't it? That's the point here. This is not clear to me.It seems you're saying that for it to work, all nodes would have to basically set the same ULN, or at least do not set ULNs which are meaningfully different.That's not a desirable requirement. More than that, I don't see how could you guarantee it.I'm correct to assume that the validation consensus need not to be unanimous, right? If 10% of your ULN doesn't agree with the ledger, you simply ignore them and trust the other 90%, right?Then how do you guarantee a split won't happen?Or else, how do you fix a split once it happens? Manual reconfiguration cannot be an option. It could take too long and make people vulnerable to double-spends.You say what's above, then you say this:But how, if most people don't even know what a validator is? Who would distrust the validator implementing "slight changes"?Sorry, my bad. (there's no actual spamming problem in the blockchain though... these dust rules were mostly unnecessary IMO)Of course it can, we saw it happening this year with the 0.7 Berkeley DB issue.I'm aware of retep desperate attempts to spread this false idea. It doesn't make it correct though. Of course they'd be "ignored", that's the very definition of a "split", each part of the network believe in its version of the ledger. But how do they get to common ground? How do you fix the split and merge everything back, without allowing for dangerous double-spends?I'm not talking about lying, I'm talking about honest splits, please read OP.If my node's ULN doesn't share a large intersection with your node's ULN, we may split. Specially considering the high settlement frequency Ripple supposedly works with. At least that's my understanding of the protocol.I'm not sure ordinary users would even bother to know what a validator is, let alone a good one, but anwyays, that's not the question.You'll only take out scammers and others if you introduce chargeback. But then you only push the problem onto merchants actually, who can take no action to counter these scammers (only their direct victims could have potentially done so)You might be right. On the other hand, protocol changes can be introduced without people having to change their clients. If 80% of validators decide to introduce some change in the protocol, your node will automatically consent to it. In Bitcoin, you'd need to take the action of updating to the new protocol version.I wonder if that's not a potential vulnerability. How many big actors would really change their validators? Introducing dangerous changes little by little, wouldn't that be a possibility?I consider that an advantage. The contract doesn't change without your explicit and active consent. In Ripple, you may "consent" without even knowing it (passively).That's false and FUD.Granted, mining is costly. But I'm still not 100% convinced Ripple actually "solves it". Nobody has yet answered this topic's question: how does ripple deal with splits/forks?Bitcoin is neither. Datz, I answered your post in the appropriate thread. If you could transfer the discussion to that thread I'd appreciate. Thanks. Perhaps, but I'm still not 100% convinced. For example, what's the answer to this question?I agree with that. And that's why the block size limit has to be lifted. Even if it implies a chaotic hard-fork due to the stubborn ones who want to cripple Bitcoin.... so be it. The majority will prefer the scalable and affordable Bitcoin, not the SWITF2.0 one. Hum, I thought the recording was being done on localhost, but only now I realized that if the escrow doesn't perform the SSL-handshake himself record everything himself on real-time, he can't really be sure the recorded data wasn't forged. That's correct, right? Only the handshake is properly signed? Each single message is not signed by the server?Tough.Of course, it's not the name+account nb that's sensitive (at least not IMO), it's the balance and transaction history. You could show only the details of the relevant transaction. At least every internet banking I've used so far do display a "confirmation page" after a transaction is finished, and this confirmation page contains all relevant data for the escrow (source and target accounts, amount, date, description).The only "inconvenience" is that the plugin wouldn't be able to automatically recognize the confirmation page - well, it could learn if it's a really fancy software with AI and all, but let's keep it simple please  -, meaning that the user should manually indicate that "this is the good page to save". That's why I mentioned a printscreen-like button. And as long as the internet banking displays the details of past transactions, the escrow could always instruct his clients on how to obtain proof of transfer in case of a dispute, meaning that in 'everything goes well' use cases, people wouldn't even need to bother with installing the plugin. Sorry for not reading the entire topic, I'm just answering the OP. If what I'm saying has already been said, just ignore me. It's a powerful idea, but there's only one thing that bothers me:All traffic? As soon as I log into my internet banking my balance is displayed, together with latest transactions. Why should my escrow see that?Can't the plugin have a sort of "print-screen" button, and only send the content of the current page when this button is pressed (together with the SSL session information, of course)? The user could then send only the receipt page for the transfer, which should be enough. Troll harder. I never tried it.Wasn't aware of it. Thanks for the link. What?? You're mixing the value of the currency with the value (cost) of transacting it.The scarcity of bitcoin is set on stone: 21M units. No more.Making Bitcoin transactions more scarce - thus more expensive - is more likely to reduce the value of the currency due to its reduced utility (if it's more expensive to transfer it around, it's certainly less useful).
Indeed I thought you were talking about miners. I don't view a smaller number of full nodes as a problem. A single honest full node is enough to spot any attempt of fraud. There'll always be more multiple honest full nodes running.Come on. You know you'll never need a "largest of the largest company operating in massive datacenters" to run a full node.100k tps? What's that? Visa apparently operates at 4tps according to the scalability page. How could Bitcoin possibly outgrow visa by 25 times in any reasonable time?The world has ~7 billion people. A day has 86,4k seconds. With 100k tps, that'd be 8,64 billion transactions per day if I'm not mistaken. It's more than 1 transaction per person in the world per day (even if we consider population growth, it'd still be close to one transaction per person per day at least). I mean... Bitcoin would already be the king of currencies if it ever reach such amounts. It'd be something so freaking important in the world, that you can rest assured there would be more than enough honest nodes running. Remember: one single honest node can spot fraud (like breaking the 21M limit for ex.). And also, by that time, we can't even imagine how powerful hardware will be.Why disturbing? Btw, that's not something that can be prevented by the protocol.Yes, the blocksize would only be increased if there's a large consensus, or if the monetary incentives to take more transactions outcome the risks/losses from eventual "orphanage". In this last case, that's supply adapting to strong demand.See, market coordination. It depends how you see it. Today there's a protocol rule imposing a 1Mb rule. That's 100% coordination, everybody follows the same rule. By dropping it, you allow a bit more of "independence". Some miners may try a limit slightly larger.It's unavoidable: there must some planning concerning what's a "too big block", because otherwise the network is vulnerable to flooding. I personally prefer the "planning by the many", and that's miners coordinating what's reasonable and what's not. They will tend to adapt to actual demand. Attempts of "central planning" (elaborating some formula etc) might not produce ideal results, and, as noted yourself, are difficult and error-prone.If I understand it correctly you're talking about a race attack with the intention to double-spend some payments, not a total overtake. Because an overtake wouldn't work out this way in the long run. It might give some higher chances of a race attack, but I doubt it'd be anything meaningful. By the way, I'm not sure I get how this attack would take place...Say, I generate a block that I know somehow it will hit the soft limits of 50% of the network (in hashpower). That means I break the network, half of it is mining on top of my block, the other on the previous. Now if I have >25% of the network's hashpower (a lot!) I can outpace any of the competing chains. But the thing is that, whatever chain I choose not to mine on will likely outpace the other. Even if it's the chain with the large block, eventually it will be accepted by those who initially refused it. It would still be very difficult to get any double-spend on anything with a meaningful number of confirmations. High value transactions always should always wait for significant amount of confirmations. And double-spending small transactions is not worth the investment. <off-topic>What Liberty Reserve heist? Couldn't find it with Google. You're not confusing it with Liberty Dollar, perhaps?</off-topic> Not only it would not propagate in time, but even if it did, it'd likely hit everybody's soft limits so everybody would just ignore this block and keep building on top of the previous one. Really? Even you buy this story that without central planning we'll get an "evil cartel"?You're very active in this forum so you're probably aware that miners could set their own soft limits to block sizes, and only accept a block beyond such limit if it's "deep enough" (that being whatever they want). This feature could be coded in bitcoind with some values by default, as the transaction fee policy, making it very easy for miners to perform such decentralized block size control.So, how could this "centralization by bloat" actually happen?Don't forget that the probability of being orphaned increases if you create extremely large blocks - even if we ignore the chance of hitting some soft limits, chance that we should not ignore. Just look at the examples we see today. I've heard some pools were voluntarily censoring SD just to avoid the extra propagation time.Oh, and don't forget either that you generate storage costs for yourself too if you start bloating the chain.Certain costs and risks in exchange of a hypothetical possibility to kick out a few pool operators with limited bandwidth? No way. Actually, DDoSers have unfortunately already done much more damage than this hypothetical risk you claim could possibly do... many pool operators have to hide themselves behind DDoS resistant ISPs already, which means large bandwidth. And that doesn't seem to be creating any "unbreakable evil cartel". It's not that difficult to start a pool today.You should check Hearn's calculations on bandwidth costs and bandwidth demands for running a full node, they are somewhere in this forum I think. You won't ever need millions of dollars to run full nodes. A few thousands per year would be enough, even with Visa-like volumes. That's far from being an insurmountable barrier of entry capable of protecting "evil cartels".I'm with Gavin and Mike Hearn on this one: there's no reason for a hard limit. Even if such catastrophic scenario you describe ever materialize (it won't), it wouldn't be difficult to fix it by just going back and adding some limits.  I think he meant an API provided by the bank to its clients. The argument is whether or not there would be enough demand for it.I for ex. don't see much demand for it. It's theoretically possible to secure your bitcoins with hardware wallets + multi-signature, what would make them extremely difficult to steal in any significant amount. The only risks would be things like kidnapping, but that's another realm.  Well, you have to type the auth code given from phone into the potentially infected computer, don't you?Assuming the malware is evolved enough, it could put itself between you and the site you're authenticating to. It would be like a hidden proxy to your session. Only that it could request withdraws that you did not request.If another 2F code is required for a withdraw, the malware can still wait for you to do a legitimate transfer and proxy that, replacing the address and the amount that's actually sent to the server (while displaying the good tx data to your browser).I'm not saying it's easy, but it's possible.2F would be stronger if the smartphone would actually receive the tx data from the server, display it, and request a confirmation from the user. Sort of like Trezor is supposed to behave. The server would not release the money before receiving a signature from a key it knows is held only in the smartphone. The only vulnerabilities I can think of are (1) infecting both devices at once or (2) end-to-end address replacement. (1) is common to all 2F methods and is considered "unlikely", and (2) would be quite hard to implement (the malware would have to change even the initial source for the address, otherwise the user would see that the address displayed on the smartphone do not match), and, assuming the user checks the amount he confirms, it would not allow the thief to get anything more than what the user is sending (if he never sends large amounts at once, he's partially protected) My apologies for making you repeat yourself. I ignore how these voting pools work. I'm guessing it's a large multi-signature thing (many people together can replace the signature of the server), but definitely I need to study it a lot more.Thanks. But don't you lose the censorship-resistance features of cryptocurrencies once you deposit them on a particular OT-server? Can't the server be killed, freezing all accounts within it? I can understand the advantages of colored coins over OT-IOUs (well, I guess I can, it's mostly the strong censorship-resistance of cryptocurrencies, right?)But the use of colored-coins as a method of fiat transferring (i.e., as a direct competitor to PayPalUSD or Dwolla or whatever) would be strongly hindered IMHO if one has to pay bitcoin fees in order to transfer these "fiat coins".I still think a dedicated chain for holding these tokens would be better than coloring coins in the main chain. Don't you agree? For people that just want to buy and sell BTC once in a while - as opposite to those who wish to profit from active trading -, what's the advantage in holding fiat-backed colored coins?Couldn't the same scheme of escrows and everything be used to acquire BTC directly, instead of going through colored coins?By the way, I think using alternate chains with merged mining is better than using colored coins in the main chain. Colored coins would likely be "tagged satoshis" if I'm not mistaken. To transfer these colored coins around, you'd need actual bitcoins to pay mining fees (and first of all, you'd need a pool that's willing to ignore recent standards on anti-dust). That means that to move your "dollars IOUs" around you'd need bitcoins to pay the transfers fees. It's kind of weird, and will make this system only useful for those willing to acquire bitcoins - and these ones, AFAICT, will not have any other reason to hold these colored coins than active trading.If instead you use an alternate chain where only fiat-backed coins exist, the mining fees would have to be payed in fiat-backed coins. That's more reasonable, and may even become a strong competitor to legacy fiat transfer methods, without requiring the user to hold bitcoins not even for a second. That could grow more quickly, and extend the advantages of "Bitcoin the payment network" to those who refuse to hold "Bitcoin the currency".As an extra, as this alternate chain would have no currency creation, we'd already have an experimentation case for fee-only mining subsidy.A single alternate chain could be created for holding everything related to the "issuance of tokens". It could hold everything you'd be willing to use colored coins for, I suppose. Here http://www.mail-archive.com/cryptography@metzdowd.com/msg09964.html The Austrians give very solid arguments on why free markets are desirable (there's no school of economics which stands more for free markets than the Austrian school) and they reject the efficient markets hypothesis. You're probably right. But IANAL either.Fantastic.I really need to read more about it. Since my first introduction to OT I was impressed by it. It seems its time is finally coming. As soon as have my hands on my wallet, you'll receive a small contribution of my part for your great work.Thanks! Are you sure about it?Something tells me that the simple fact that a colored coin issuer can't control where his coins go to already makes it impossible for them to implement such restrictions on most jurisdictions.Wasn't that the very reason ecash was dropped by banks?But suppose it's legal. If I'm getting this right (and that's a big if, I confess I need to study this much more), in this new scenario MtGox-like institutions would emit colored-coins which could then be exchanged against normal bitcoins in a p2p, hard-to-track way. But to get fiat in and out, you'd have to go to your fiat-holder and then everything would be tracked as it is today. You'd still need to trust your fiat-holder not to commit fraud or disappear with your money, but, for sure, that'd be a harder coup to play than disappearing with your bitcoins.So, we would no longer need to worry with "trade engine lags" and alike, and we would no longer need to store our BTC in a shared wallet. Any other big advantage?Question: Wouldn't a p2p marketplace for escrows which do not hold your fiat be even better than that? The escrows only need to intervene when there's a dispute. But traders are still responsible for transferring funds to one-another, as in OTC. BTC-funds would be locked in 2-of-3 addresses, waiting for the fiat transfer to complete. No "bank-account to hold them all". If you have an API to access your bank account (think merchants) you can even automate everything, as the look-up for escrows could be based on deterministic criteria. This hypothesis doesn't come from those who practice economics they way it should be, i.e., aprioristically. They are commonly called "Austrian economists" or economists of the Austrian School, since the first members of these school of economics were Austrians.A quick search found me this article from Tom Woods: https://mises.org/daily/4904/Following-the-EfficientMarkets-Hypothesis-into-Absurdity (haven't read it entirely though, just linking it here to make it explicit that actual economists don't agree with this theory) I'd really appreciate an equivalent of this late US conference in EU. Heard about FATCA already?Even Switzerland and Lichtenstein have already knelled to the emperor. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-02/billionaire-tax-haven-liechtenstein-loses-on-bank-reforms.html Not yet. You'll be there the day the bulldozer operator gladly accepts your bitcoins.  You could also try to blacklist fraudsters' address with this technique.Additionally, merchants willing to accept 0-conf transactions from unknown customers could also subscribe to insurance contracts that would reimburse the merchant in case of loss. To decrease the chances of fraud, these insurers could directly finance miners (send a part of their premium to "honest" miners which don't accept double-spends, at least not for insured transactions). The insurers could also make assurance contracts, but I'm not sure if you can select a minimal transaction-set you want to assure, would need to reread about it.Perhaps. On the other hand... it's not really happening. There are other things at play. For significant amounts, people don't accept 0-conf from unknown customers. And for cheap transactions.. is it really worth trying to defraud the merchant? Also... most people are honest and wouldn't steal.So, maybe it's just too early to start worrying about this. Yes, clients should sound alarms if they detect a double-spend attempt. Also, if eventually this "malicious pool" is created, merchants' clients should even try to subscribe to it in order to known if they are under attack. The only problem is that the pool could easily disconnect those that don't submit a minimum amount of shares.I wouldn't call that "dispute mediation" but yeah, that's a good idea. Insurers could also attempt that. (you should not expect merchants themselves to take all these measures... merchants don't want to worry with these technicalities... they have their own business to focus on)
Search for 2-of-3 multisignature transactions.Basically you can create an address that need the signature of 2 out of 3 keys in order to be spent. The escrow, as well as both parties of a transaction would each hold one of the keys. Only with the agreement of at least 2 of them the money would be moved.So the worst the escrow can do is to be a "bad judge" in a conflict case. He can't steal the money.  How do you even detect a fork's happened?And how does "change their settings" fix the problem? How do you decide which fork is good and which is not? If human intervention is necessary, we may suppose that at best it would take several hours - probably several days - to come to an agreement on a "good UNL". Doesn't that open the door to dangerous double-spends? (imagine a Bitcoin reorg of hundreds of blocks) Am I the only one finding it suspicious that such attack on MtGox came soon after CoinLab lawsuit?Perhaps I'm just being overly paranoid, but Vesseness looks increasingly suspicious to me. He surely has some contacts... VCs, big law firms... He chose Washington D.C. to siege TBF (any place with more lobbyists per m2 in the world?).Could he have anything to do with this? Bump.But how do you solve it? How do you know which ledger is correct? You manually pick one, randomly? How do you get everybody to pick the same?Assuming all sides of the fork(s) are honest, there should be a deterministic way to solve it. Does anyone know, with a good degree of certainty (not guesses), if this has anything to do with Vesseness and their lawsuit?I'm increasingly suspicious about this individual. He seems to be a man of "contacts". (VC support, opening TBF on Washington D.C. etc). If you note my quote above, I was answering to your comment of "riches lining up to lend it". Who are most of these buyers?The Social Security? The Fed? Foreign governments/central banks?None of these use their own money to buy these bonds. I wouldn't be so sure about "riches lining up to lend it".According to business insider, US households + private pension funds together barely sum up 10% of the total amount. And even if you add mutual funds and commercial banks, that's still less than what the social security alone lends to US federal gov. That article is of 2011 btw. I wonder if the Fed share hasn't increased since then.Also, remember that many of these funds are contractually obliged to invest their clients money in "officially safe" investments. Lots of people put money in these funds without even knowing where it's going. Ah, sorry.The technology won't be banned. I mean, even dumb politicians can see the amount of good uses these printers can have. At most, they'll try to control/regulate it in order to forbid the printing of certain contents, pretty much as filesharing indeed (which is not banned, they just attempt to ban particular files). They'd fail, as you noted. Unfortunately it's easier to enforce it than you might think. The reason being that as soon as you use an illegal gun - even for self-defense - you might face jail time.I grew up in Brazil. It's a violent place. Owning a gun legally is very difficult. Buying one illegally is easier. Even though, I never attempted to buy one, and probably never would. Most burglars are only after your money, and if you surrender it, they don't kill nor hurt you. On the other hand, if you use your illegal gun for protection and end up with a dead body on your living room, you might go to jail. Even disregarding the psychological weight of knowing you took somebody's life, I'd say it's wiser to just give your money than face jail just to save it.Anyway. I hope 3D-printable guns kill for once the wrong idea that gun prohibition can reduce the number of guns available to criminals. And I hope that changes the mind of enough anti-gun people, and legal gun ownership becomes easier around the globe. Because otherwise, I'm not sure how would they help. Most honest people who can't have legal guns would likely be afraid to print their own. And those who already can don't need to bother, conventional guns will remain much better for a long time. Inflation is worse than default, that's not just a matter of opinion.Inflation draws purchasing power from money owners, which is the equivalent of taxing them to pay government debt, with the difference that inflation is the worst tax possible, as it affects proportionally more strongly the poorer and the more ignorant, and worse still, as it's practiced today, it causes economic cycles that destroy capital.No. Government debt is not a voluntary contract as you claim, because those who are left with the burden to pay did not consent with it. The equivalent analogy is I lend you money and then you force others to repay the debt for you.Forcing innocent taxvictims to pay government debt is not only unethical, but economically unwise too, as with every non-voluntary trade/agreement. As government itself cannot repay its debt out of its own resources since it does not produce anything, there's no better solution than a default, in spite of all the chaos it would cause in the short term. For all practical matters that is a partial default. Actually, it's economically worse than a default.Awesome site. I'm very pleased to see your involvement with Bitcoin. Bitcoin and Seasteading are two things that fascinate me.Since this seems an AMA, I'll shoot my questions too.I've noticed you do intend to provide a considerable level of economic freedom on board, by not collecting taxes, by choosing contractual arbitration as preferred resolution dispute etc. That's awesome. I hope to soon see Blueseed on the top of indexes like those of the Fraser Institute or the Heritage Foundation.But what about the more "social aspects" of freedom? Some of them tend to be a taboo in US (and many other places), where things as banal as drinking alcohol outside might be illegal. I hope you're not willing to mimic these authoritarian behaviors. So...Will gambling be allowed?Will recreational use of marijuana be allowed? Now that some US states have allowed it, you'd start worse than them if you don't.Will prostitution be allowed? Banning the "oldest profession on Earth" is so stupid I don't even have words for it. And since you're focusing on IT startups, you'll likely not have a balanced men/women ration. I would advice at least a tolerance-policy towards prostitution.Will individuals be allowed to carry guns on board? Will there be a place to practice shooting? If you allow the inhabitants to be the "preventive police" of the place, you may save a lot on security.I also have a question of more practical nature: will there be a nursery/hospital on board? Will health insurance be possible? Do you have an estimate of costs?And finally, I'm intrigued by these restrictions being mentioned on this thread, related to the fact that the chosen place is a "protected sanctuary" of some kind to some environmentalist religions. Isn't the place outside of US territorial waters? How can US enforce the protection of a sanctuary outside of its jurisdiction? Or does it just ignore international conventions on territorial waters?Thanks, and congratulations for your work. I really hope you succeed. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=3;sa=showPosts OK. And comparing it with drilling holes in people's heads was totally coherent, relevant and "respectful". I hope you're right on the last phrase. And yes, in the end of the day significant miners get to tell what's accepted or not. So why embedding this particular policy in the default behavior anyway? (the particular dust-non-standard one, not the config options, which are obviously welcome) That's your - and mine too - opinion.Some people apparently see the blockchain as useful for data storage, or for message sending, whatever. Simply trying to censor them is dumb. It's the typical bureaucratic response to a perceived "problem": ban it!The clever response is to imagine how could Bitcoin profit from it. And I can see no better way than to make them pay for such unconventional usage.Don't be ridiculous (or troll harder). There's consent in Bitcoin usage. Apart from botnets and alike, nobody forces you to install Bitcoin in your computer.They're not "imposed".And yeah, that's part of the "game": the remuneration is diluted in this lottery-like thing popularly called mining. That's known in advance. You know you'll only get the fees of a transaction if you get to produce the block that contains it. As long as the remuneration you collect (inflation + fee) pays for the overall effort and costs you need to bear, you should be fine.Although in general I'm for the internationalization of costs, you shouldn't get overly paranoid there. Sometimes it's more expensive to internalize a cost than to bear the free-rider. For example, have you ever seen a residential building trying to charge its inhabitants according to the amount of times they took the elevator?(By the way, if UTXO ever becomes so huge that smaller miners can't bear to store it entirely - I honestly doubt it - they can choose to drop some transactions that they believe will never be spent. At the worst, some of these transactions get spent and these miners won't be able to fully validate the block in which they get included - if they get included by someone-, pretty much like SPV nodes. But they'll still be able to validate and mine all others, more "interesting" transactions. Another alternative would be to store these txs in slower and cheaper media, since they don't expect to access it. Anyway, I really doubt UTXO will ever get that big so this is likely a non-issue)Great, at least people can safely opt-out. I still think it should be an opt-in though.By deciding which use cases are desirable and which are not, and attempting to censor those considered undesirable. That's a judgement of value.I insist: banning like this is dumb. Charging for it is more reasonable, and much more use-case-neutral.I wouldn't call that "discouraging", I'd call that censoring them on bitcoind. Discouraging would be to make them pay.It is not against their consent (botnets excluded, of course). I agree with you, but it's still sad to see biased behavior being embedded in the reference implementation. It's like bitcoin.org. Not a monopoly, but still, the "reference". I'd very much prefer if it remained the most unbiased possible.  It doesn't make sense.A 1 satoshi tx paying enough fees is certainly more interesting than a 1.000 BTC tx not paying anything. Great. First you set up a biased "press center", now you embed arbitrary judgement of value in the default client behavior. This is degenerating fast.In case you don't get it - and you likely don't - it should not be up to you, or any developer, to decide how Bitcoin transactions should be used, or what purpose they fill. You're basically inserting a rule in the reference implementation whose motivation to be is an attempt to censor certain use cases of the protocol, simply because you believe the protocol should not be used for such. That's just not right. Of course that the mining activity must remain profitable, and fees to block spam are thus something reasonable. But censoring any output below X no matter how much fees it carries is not reasonable. It doesn't make sense. If somebody is paying fees to store arbitrary data in the blockchain, just let him be.Will bitcoind also disconnect from nodes that don't respect this policy, à la FATCA style? By reading the description on GitHub I get the impression that every transaction with a single output below 54.3µBTC will be treated as non-standard, even if it carries other larger outputs, or if it carries lots of fees.Is this correct?Because it doesn't seem to make sense to me. Why should miners reject a transaction with 1 satoshi output which carry, say, 10mBTC as fee, but still accept transactions with no fees at all? Wow.... and this is the individual picking who gets to be on the "Press Center"... indeed, not even Hugo Chavez would be so explicit.Please, sirius, just shut this damn Press Center down. It's impossible to have any other consensus with people like this one I'm quoting. It's better to just delete this page from bitcoin.org.
It seems he read Mike Hearn's decentralized blacklists idea. So the domain is not under your control? There's some problem with the domain name. I'm must put https://109.201.133.65 in the URL in order to access it. Mike, you complain about viewing things as "black and white", but look at yourself: It likely will. I can't copy and paste the address from an image but you can. Go on https://blockchain.info and check whether your address has a balance. If it has, then the transaction succeeded and it's just a matter of synchronization. Interesting theory, but I wouldn't be that sure. Satoshi looked much more reserved than DPR. The latter expresses his political ideas much more eloquently than the former.Thanks OP for sharing and thanks Andy Greenberg for compiling this collection. +1 Do you see this, folks? Can you find somebody that writes better than this guy on this forum? And he's not even on the damn press list! Please, just remove this pity attempt of "censorship of ideas" from bitcoin.org. Wow... totally distinct sets, huh? Anarchists don't ever form business or write software. Brilliant.I'm sorry Mike... I strongly admire your work, you're the source of a bunch of really bright ideas in Bitcoin world. And you work hard for its improvement. I thank you for that. But this post of yours was pathetic and filled with prejudice. Perhaps the worst of yours I've read so far.Oh no no, that's not apolitical at all, and you know it very well. All this is already a political choice - that of being a state-lover and "law-abiding" person. That's obviously a political standpoint (and imho, a sort of religious belief too).And by the way, about "always following the law", perhaps you should read what Falkvinge has to say about it (he's a socialist statist, by the way): http://falkvinge.net/2012/07/19/debunking-the-dangerous-nothing-to-hide-nothing-to-fear/ (it's item 3 if you're in a hurry)(I can also quote Larken Rose, but I suppose you'll discredit him right away: )I agree, pointing to a wiki page is probably not a good idea either. A true attempt of making bitcoin.org less biased would be to remove this Press Center entirely. Just remove the Press Center from bitocoin.org, and journalists will keep doing whatever they do to search for information. Coinapult SMS Wallet is to Bitcoin what M-Pesa is to whatever fiat currency they transfer.The problem with coinapult is that their sms wallet is only available in Canada+USA, two countries that don't really need it. If somebody with good connections with mobile operators in these poorer countries builds something equivalent, there's a chance it'll take of. Actually, M-Pesa itself should seriously consider adding a bitcoin wallet option. You really believe this? Seriously?As said by others, banks frequently blacklist Bitcoin exchanges because criminals steal some of their clients credentials and use them to send money to these exchanges, in the hope of quickly converting this money to Bitcoin.Instead of making their systems more secure, they prefer to simply blacklist the exchanges. Such assumption is not reasonable.Surely it can change, and likely will. It's also likely that there will be people that will insist in remain in the "old version" where no more than 1Mb blocks can exist. That will provoke a fork. This will provoke lots of turbulence in the short run. In the long run, the scalable Bitcoin will "win". Yes, people have thought about it. There's plenty of material on this forum, on the wiki, the Bitcoin Magazine print version ran an article on it etc.OP: you don't need to use bitcoin-qt if you want it to be ready fast. You can use something like Multibit for example, it uses SPV. And they have absolute control over it or what? Why can't all other developers simply "band up" and remove this trouble from bitcoin.org? Why can't sirius do it? I thought he controlled bitcoin.org. Whose idea was it, for a start? Seriously, who thought that putting a small list of people on bitcoin.org as "press contacts" would be a good idea?Just remove this damn list from bitcoin.org for fuck sake!It should have never been created in the first place. Journalists seeking for information should keep doing what they used to do: contacting people like those in the Bitcoin Magazine, in the Bitcoin Foundation, or individuals like Voorhees, Ver and Matonis.Bitcoin.org should be as neutral as possible. Just expose the technology, that's all. Matonis, Ver and Voorhees are obviously perfect for PR, have been doing it greatly so far. The simple fact that they are not on this list shows how biased the list is. And IMHO bicoin.org should do the most it can to be as unbiased as possible. So, just remove the damn list.Actually, where is sirius? Is he really OK with this? Does he really believe that Satoshi left him the domain so it could be used like that? Inhabitable dry land is all taken over already, you know...But that's the whole point! Seasteaders don't want to live in the sea for the sake of it. Of course that if this is the only parameter, no doubt that I prefer to live on dry land like our species was meant to be. The idea, though, is to bring competition to governments, and eventually "persuade" them to improve themselves - and consequently the life standards of all would improve as well.You seem to be quite a problem-oriented person. Instead of focusing on potential solutions, you immediately see the difficulties and dismiss the entire thing. Many people regret having treated Bitcoin this way in the past.Anyways, thanks for taking your time to address my questions. But what if you just avoid such dangerous places? Hurricanes don't happen everywhere. The South Atlantic for example is calmer. The Mediterranean too.How deep would you need to go to avoid the most dangerous waves a sea like the Mediterranean may hit you with?Obviously by avoid I don't mean 100% ignore it, but just resist it without having your "house" rolling/turning strongly (or breaking apart!) and without getting seasick.The supporters of the idea claim that most of the time the ocean is calm enough so that you can leave your submarine afloat. The top of the submarine would be like a balcony. It wouldn't be much different from an apartment after all.Once in a while you'd have to sink for protection though.  I wonder how sudden would that happen. I mean, if you left your home floating and went to work nearby, do you have enough time to come back to it and sink before things get serious?That's part of the argument of the seasteading institute (which is against submersible designs).Those for it claim that such complexity is not necessary in a seastead use case. They say, for example, that you'd never need to sink deeper than what a snorkel can reach, so no need for fancy equipment to get oxygen from the sea water. Most of the military grade equipment available in modern submarines would also not be necessary either, according to them.If I remember well, they claimed that you'd be able to have a concrete submarine with available inner space comparable to that of a 60m2 apartment for something like 200k, what would make it comparable to the costs of a house in the French Riviera for example. Do you agree with this assessment?The main supporter of this idea has already produced private concrete submarines: http://concretesubmarine.com/TSI has already published many research papers on these topics. See: http://www.seasteading.org/overview/Because they would not be crippled by regulations and taxation. That's the whole point: the freer the economy, the more potential it has. A seastead based on libertarian principles would likely be freer than any other economy in this world.Most american nations didn't have a shared heritage or shared language when they started. Same goes for Australia and other 'new world' nations. From what I've been reading these open sea capable structures (including platforms, but specially steel ships) have huge maintenance costs. Sometimes you can buy big ships for a cheap price, but that's simply because their maintenance is due and they don't think it's worthy doing it. It's probably valid for oil rigs too.But again, I have absolutely no solid knowledge on naval engineering. If that's the case, would you care to share your opinion on this debate? http://www.seasteading.org/2012/02/the-seasteading-institute-policy-on-submersible-seasteads/As I know bullocks of naval engineering, I can only watch the discussions and can't make any opinion out of them. It would be nice if submersible seasteads could be made as cheap and reliably as their supporters claim they can be, since that would allow a much more incremental approach (you could have "family-sized seasteads"). If that's not the case - and TSI is emphatic when it says it is not -, then the only alternative left are big structures which would need to be shared among hundreds or even thousands of people - no small group of "normal" (not billionaires) people would ever be able to buy a ship or platform capable of resisting open sea waves, AFAICT. Isn't that what Coinapult SMS wallet does?Perhaps the greatest advantage is that they already have it working outside of USA and Canada? (Because, let's be honest, how many people need a SMS wallet in USA and Canada?) I'd start by saying the term "mining" is not really appropriate. It's stuck due to the gold-standard analogies, but it doesn't really describe what's done.Then I'd say that the bitcoin network maintains a distributed database of transactions, and that keeping that database alive costs a lot in resources. People who voluntarily help to keep this database alive and secure are rewarded monetarily, both with inflation and with 'transaction fees', that are like tips people may add to their transactions.
bump Flavius, for a business with 20 employees, keeping 700k in your bank account is not a big deal. Parabéns pelo tópico Daniel. É importante dar esses conselhos de boas-vindas.Eu só seria um pouco mais "paranoico" no que diz respeito a segurança das tuas bitcoins. Pessoalmente, acredito que você nunca deve estocar suas bitcoins no mesmo computador que utiliza para navegar na internet. (claro, você pode estocar uma pequena quantia por questão de comodidade, como o dinheiro que você leva contigo no bolso, mas nunca uma soma significativa)Navegadores são softwares cada vez mais complexos, verdadeiras máquinas virtuais, com diversos plugins etc. Por mais higiene digital que você tenha (e muitos não tem), você ainda assim corre o risco de ser contaminado por algo que passar por alguma vulnerabilidade do teu navegador. Já vi isso acontecer com computeiros que "vivem" na internet desde meados da década de 90, e que entendem de segurança digital.Ou seja, se quer segurança, não pode estocar suas bitcoins no teu sistema principal de uso cotidiano.As alternativas disponíveis são coisas como paper wallets, offline wallets (que podem ser simuladas com um sistema Live numa USB, tipo um Tails por ex., para quem não tem um computador só pra isso), ou até mesmo brain wallets para os mais aventureiros (cuidado, a qualidade da senha é muito importante aqui). Admito que essas soluções são um tanto quanto geeks, e podem afugentar quem não fica muito à vontade com computadores. Eventualmente dispositivos como o Trezor ou o BitSafe estarão à venda para as massas, com interfaces bonitinhas e outras firulas, permitindo que todo mundo possa estocar bitcoins em segurança.Ah, e lembre-se de sempre fazer backups criptografados na cloud. Use senhas fortes para teus backups. E senha forte = senha longa, não uma senha cheia de símbolos e caracteres estranhos que mais parece um texto em chinês que você inevitavelmente vai esquecer caso não a digite o tempo todo. Visto que eles podem escrever e interpretar leis da maneira que bem entendem, isso é teoricamente possível, claro.Mas seria no mínimo intrigante como eles formulariam a tal lei. Como definir Bitcoin exatamente, sem dar margens a interpretações amplas demais?Enfim, como outros já disseram, até hoje não houve nenhuma pronunciação oficial do governo brasileiro no que diz respeito ao Bticoin*. Para efeitos fiscais, o mais apropriado é tratar como um investimento qualquer (ações, moeda estrangeira etc). O que por si só já me deixa com uma dúvida: se um residente fiscal brasileiro comprar uma moeda estrangeira e guardá-la por algum tempo, e nesse meio tempo ela se valorizar, o leão vai lhe cobrar imposto caso ele use essa moeda estrangeira para comprar coisas (sem passar pelo Real, usando diretamente a moeda estrangera para a compra)?Como pode ver, há muitas dúvidas no ar ainda. E, infelizmente, acho que essas dúvidas inibem muitas empresas.* Já houve uma pronunciação da CVM com respeito a um antigo fundo de investimento gerenciado por Leandro César. Esse fundo era em Bitcoin. Mas o pronunciamento da CVM não teve nada a ver com bitcoins em si, mas sim com o fato de que o Leandro não tinha a autorização do cartel para operar fundos de investimento.PS: Obrigado por escrever esses artigos no IMB. Já estava me cansando das infindáveis discussões por lá. Acho que seus excelentes artigos vão facilitar a compreensão de muita gente. That's false. The block size was limited because that was the easiest solution Satoshi decided to implement in order to prevent people from spamming the blockchain. That was intended to be a temporary solution.. you know, like the second one in this list: https://deconectat.wordpress.com/2010/09/23/top-funny-source-code-comments/But eventually this limit will be lifted. That might provoke a fork of the network, since some people do prefer to force the scenario you describe (BTC not capable of handling all users transactions, having to operate like a SWIFT 2.0). But eventually most people would migrate to scalable Bitcoin.  Je ne connais pas trop, mais oui il y a des crackers.En revanche, il faut que tu aies toujours au moins une idée approximative de ton ancien mot de passe (la longueur, les caractères utilisés, des morceaux que tu te rappelles etc). Sans aucune piste, un cracker ne peut casser que des mots de passes faibles (autrement à quoi ce servirait d'avoir un mot de passe?  )Je te suggère chercher d'aide dans le forum anglophone. Il y a plus de monde, et j'ai déjà vu des gens conseiller d'autres dans ta situation, qui ont finalement réussi à cracker leurs propres wallets. Actually I think a "bitcoin for the masses" client should go the other way around: eventually hide all addresses from users, and just let them know they have "wallets".All you need to know is that you have "wallets" or "accounts". Whenever you want to receive money in one of your wallets, your client generates you an URI, a QR-code or a simple file that contains a master public key for a deterministic key sequence. This master public key could be generated via a another "master-master-key", basically you'd have a grand-master-key for a wallet, which could generate different master keys for each time you want to produce a "bill".You'd send this file/URL/QR-code to the payer. He'd add it to his payees' list, your name would show. Every time he wants to send you anything, he just chooses your name, and his client generates a new key from the master-key it has.Users would only see something like an address is if they ever try to read the URI/file/QR-code - what they don't really need to. And once the secure payment protocol is implemented, a payee with a recognized certificate could even use URL shortners instead. A feature rich client could smoothly integrate with some shortner when applicable. And even if you don't want to pay for a recognized certificate, sending a self-signed key once is no less secure than sending a plain address. My point is that the technical complexity and "weirdness/geekness" of addresses can be hidden, making it much more user friendly IMHO. And at the same time we make sure people would use Bitcoin addresses as recommended: one per transaction. Wouldn't that make regulation automatically much stricter in many countries?I wouldn't be surprised if in many places the law concerning foreign currencies happens to be more draconian than the laws concerning virtual goods.Take Argentina, for example. Wouldn't that automatically push Bitcoin into its capital control, making it impossible for TradeHill to even start its venture?And despite that, I don't think we should be seeking "state recognition". À juger par le message d'erreur ça semble plutôt un problème avec ton pool.Mais je ne mine pas, donc je ne sais pas vraiment. How common are smartphones in Zimbabwe?If they're not very common yet, what's needed for quicker Bitcoin adoption is something like Coinapult SMS wallet, at least while smartphones are not everywhere. And, of course, an exchange would be necessary too. I'm not aware of any... is there an exchange in Zimbabwe, or an easy way for Zimbabweans to send dollars to foreign exchanges?Actually, if the transfer of cell phone minutes is so easy, wouldn't it be possible to build a "cell phone minutes/BTC" exchange, instead of BTC/USD exchange? You would only need to be sure the cell phone operator would not close the exchange account for unauthorized use of its credits.For the great majority of transactions you don't need more than 1 confirmation. Actually, if you know the sender, you don't need any confirmation at all.Are you aware of Bitcoin Wireless? Perhaps you should contact them. What you're calling "definition" is a set of "good practices" implemented in bitcoind and followed by most (all?) miners. But the protocol itself allows for 0-conf replacements. That's what I meant by "definition".  How do you know if an address has the money it needs to perform a transaction?Plus, for the integrity of the chain, you must have at least all the headers. That's the only way to know which chain is longer. But they wouldn't be undermining their own wealth, I'd say the contrary actually.You're being overly dramatic here, admit it. Being able to replace 0-conf tx would not be such a bad thing.I'd say that "selling" a false impression of security could actually do more damage. And the fact is that 0-conf are, by definition, replaceable.But they'd still be able to do it.First, if the merchant knows his/her customer, no major problem in accepting 0-conf.If he doesn't, still, he can rely on insurance contracts that will on their turn have miners committing to mine a particular transaction instead of any replacement.Besides that, merchants could also collectively - and voluntarily - try to blacklist double-spenders.Sums all that, and you'll have very little fraud, if any.Actually, why am I telling all these things to you? All these ideas are yours after all... hum... Friday evening, you're already drinking or something?   OKPay was not victim of a 0-conf, but a much more serious situation (the huge reorg caused by the 0.7 bug).I think at least Satoshi Dice has already been the victim of a 0-conf double-spend.But yeah, they are rare to the point of being negligible, if you compare them with CC fraud.That doesn't change OP's point though: it's only safe because most miners are behaving as per the default bitcoind implementation. There's no strong guarantee that will remain being the case for long. (even then 0-conf would still remain relatively safe for many use cases, for example when you know your customer or when you can suspend your service easily) I've never analysed the data myself, but I'd guess that honest splits tend to carry almost (if not exactly) the same transactions on each side of the split. Those are very good points.Such patch would not be that useful if it's not used by most relays and at least a few generators. But it's a start anyway.It's sort of like GMail undo when you click Send. You have a few moments to change your mind, but once the mail is gone, you can't bring it back.An eventual undo button should be disabled as soon as a confirmation is seen.Good point. Warnings would be welcome.Come on, you must admit that some double-spent of 0-conf transactions would never make Bitcoin collapse, that's an exaggeration. Particularly if people understand that a 0-conf tx can be easily undone. What's not a very good way to think btw. What matters to your life is not whether your investment made you 5% or 5.000% but whether you earned $50 or $50.000.It works when making savings to. For example, people are capable of making some effort in order to save $100 in a $200 purchase. But most people wouldn't even care about a saving of $100 when buying a house. And it's $100 in both cases, the exact same value...(not questioning the display of the price in logarithmic scale though,... if you want to measure variance, that seems to make sense) Indeed it is: How Fossil Fuels Have Greened the Planet (weird, I must click the google link to get through the paywall, the direct link doesn't work) AFAIK they were stolen and were trying to repay their customers' losses with their profits. Not defending them on their mistake for losing that money, but isn't it clear that they can't comply with FinCEN? It costs lots of money, Even MtGox preferred to relay that responsibility to one of these 500K+ venture capitalist funded companies.How could Bitfloor comply with that?
My guess is that they can't comply with FinCEN rulings.If it's the case, it's just one more example of how regulations kill businesses, and creates market concentration. Loans in BTC particularly are not feasible due to its extreme volatility.But if a currency is used by an entire nation, its price won't fluctuate that much. A stable currency would increase in value proportionally to the economic growth of its user base. Loans would then be a possibility, likely with low interest rates. Like they were during the gold standard (during the second half of the XIX century in the US, for instance, prices would systematically fall)You're ignoring that inflation is not neutral. Those who receive the money first profit from those who receive it last, by being able to buy things before prices account for the new money. When the last people in the chain receive the new money, it'll be already too late. So, at least (when we're talking about 'simple inflation'), it is a nefarious wealth transfer mechanism. It's the most disguised of all taxes, and tend to hit harder on the most ignorant and/or poor.And that's not all. Inflation nowadays is not simple. It's always directed to the credit market, creating signals to investors that there's lots of resources to invest in long term projects, Obviously creating money doesn't create resources, so this false signal will trigger a malinvestment boom which will result in a burst. These boom and burst cycles result in lots of lost capital. You can read more here:  https://mises.org/daily/672You're forced to hold at least some because you're forced to pay your taxes in fiat. The network effect of the banking system will also ensure you hold much more than what you strictly need only for taxation.Let's hope Bitcoin makes it easier to live without fiat one day.  Brushan, if you analyse your argument a little deeper basically what you're saying is that the purchasing power of everybody else should be kept weaker than what it can be just to help exporters.That's wrong both ethically and economically.No, you should not decrease the purchasing power of an entire society in order to temporarily help a segment of it. When your money earns value, you earn more purchasing power and you become richer. So if the money of an entire country is getting more valuable, everybody in this country is getting richer!And this effect over exporters is much less worse than what people make it look like. With his stronger money, the exporter farmer of your example will have more purchasing power to acquire more tools/machinery and be more productive, for example. Also, since the value of money increased, people can receive nominally smaller wages - which could be actually higher in purchasing power. There are other things you can change to attempt other hashes.The timestamp, for example, is quite flexible.And the coinbase is controlled by the generator. There's this extraNounce field people are putting there. I don't think they can, as of today.If this was for real - I don't think it is - then eventually the means would show up. Physical representations of BTC could be used, although they should be discouraged due to counterpart or counterfeit risks.Something like Coinapult SMS wallet could work well too. SMS payments thrive in Kenya, I've heard.Of all nations on Earth, I doubt there's anyone more used with price instability than Zimbabwe. So that shouldn't be as big a problem to them as it would be to others, even because with BTC prices would be mostly falling, making them richer, not the opposite they're are used to. tl;dr: It would be great for them to do it.I just don't believe it's going to happen. Zimbabwe is not that small. Its M1 is $12G according to the CIA. That's much more than Bitcoin's monetary base has ever been, even during its all time high. I have a hard time believing this.The Sealand story is more credible though, as that's a really tiny sovereign country (smallest on Earth?) and its prince seems to be tech-savvy. (they attempted to make Sealand a data haven, for ex.). But still, I wouldn't hold my breath. Let's see. By rea" I mean the actual price, fruit of supply and demand, not an artificial price invented by a government, with no link to reality.Difficulty to obtain something is a factor naturally embedded in the price of this something. I didn't really understand your point. What do you mean by "international"? Wait. The "black market dollar rate" is the real price of the dollar. You should not compare with the official dollar price, because that price is totally bogus. You should use the black market dollar price as comparison. What's the BTC premium when you consider the black market dollar for the comparison? I wonder today if that's a good thing.Of course, kudos to Sealand's prince for even thinking about it.But, I mean, would it be good for bitcoiners? If Bitcoin becomes the official currency of a country, wouldn't legislation about buying/selling/holding it automatically become harsher in most other countries?Just as an example, wouldn't Argentina's capital controls automatically apply, making TradeHill plans impossible to start?I'd like to be wrong on that one, but I'm not sure. Argentina has large borders, particularly with Chile (which happens to be the freest Latin America economy according to Heritage). There are lots of kms of deserts among the two, if I'm not mistaken. Smuggling stuff through it shouldn't be that difficult, and Bitcoin can help on that because then you only need to smuggle in one direction. Depending on how serious Argentine inflation gets, it might become economically worthy to smuggle. And some people might make it a business, bringing Bitcoins to those in Argentina who can't afford to cross the border themselves.Anyway, this would be a black market solution, and won't be happening until Bitcoin-awareness is much higher than what it is today. But according to the link in OP, Jared is not searching for black market solutions, he's actually going to play it on the open. As soon as his exchange is noticed by the Argentine government (assuming he actually manages to open it), he'll likely be shut down, if not worse. But perhaps he'll manage to create enough awareness so that the black market can take it from there. Wow, Jared, balls of steel! (or is it insanity/naivety?)Giving people an easy way to escape capital controls, on the open like this... This is dangerous. I hope he manages to do it without ever needing to step on Argentine soil. They can't "regulate gravity" but they can pretty much forbid you to skydive for example.We should not be so arrogant. Governments can be dangerous to Bitcoin. Watch out with this. If your wallet is not deterministic (bitcoin-qt is not), a new random address will be generated even when you send money. So your wallet file changes. It's true that you don't need to backup that frequently, but that's because the program pre-generates 100 address in advance, and always get "new address" from this pool when it needs one. A CVM não tem nada que se meter com nada. Na verdade, ela nem deveria existir. Mas vai convencê-los disso. You wallet may be encrypted, in which case a password is necessary to unlock it and spend the money in it. Great post Stephen! Established business people tend to like regulations a lot, indeed. They keep competition at bay, by creating a huge barrier of entry to new market participants. By pressing for tough and strict regulations, Vessenes assures that few people will manage to create new startups to compete with him (like that bitfloor guy for ex., would his exchange exist if regulation enforcement was strict when he started?)Regardless of whether he meant regulation for his competitors or regulation for Bitcoin in general, I don't find it sane to have a person that likes to use government force in the Bitcoin Foundation board. But who am I to say anything anyway, I'm not even a member of this club.I very much enjoy the free-market spirit of "older" Bitcoin entrepreneurs like Erik Voorhees, Roger Ver, Charlie Shrem etc. I guess that as Bitcoin approaches mainstream, more "classic" entrepreneurs will start showing up. We'll have to deal with it.Thank you OP for opening this topic and making me aware of this fact. Yes, you can reload your backup in a fresh new install of Bitcoin-QT, it will rescan the wallet and find all your transactions.No. A malware in your computer could access it. If it's kept encrypted, the malware would only be able to steal your money if it also steals your password (assuming your password is strong, otherwise it could bruteforce it). Stealing a password is not really difficult for a malware though: it just need to wait for you to type it.If you want to own a sensible amount of bitcoins (like, more than the cash you'd hold on your pocket while outside, for ex.), then you should search for more secured configurations, like offline wallets, paperwallets, USB-live systems etc. Or wait for Trezor to come out. The key to security is never to keep your private keys in the same computer you use for mundane tasks, like surfing the web. Even if you're a security expert, the computer you use to surf the web is always vulnerable to some degree. E eu diria arriscado para o próprio L. Por acaso ele segue as 3,14*1064 leis financeiras/tributárias e o escambau para poder legalmente guardar dinheiro de diversas outras pessoas em sua própria conta como fazia?No que diz respeito ao Rain, ele já foi ameaçado pela CVM quando tinha outro nome... tenho minhas dúvidas que mudar de nome baste.Enfim, não defendo a CVM ou essas leis todas, mas o fato é que eles existem e eles têm poder pra foder contigo quando quiserem. The answers to your questions depend on what software you're using for your wallet.Assuming it's a desktop client like Bitcoin-Qt, Electrum, Multibit or Armory, then yes, your wallet is a file on your computer. If you have no backups of this file and your HD dies, you lose your money. So, make encrypted backups! And choose a good password for the encryption.Concerning backups, some clients (Electrum, Armory) have "deterministic wallets". These wallets have a "master key". You only need to backup this master key, and the entire wallet may be recovered from it if needed.For clients that do not have deterministic wallets, the backup must be performed frequently. Ideally, if you're geek enough, make your wallet file be a symbolic link to a file in some cloud backup service. (encrypted, of course).
Care to link it here? I couldn't find it. Thanks.By the way, I believe the wiki article should be edited to answer this question as I don't think I'm going to be the last one asking it. This could be done right now, with no modification in Bitcoin protocol. It could be a parallel protocol. Nice idea.The length of a chain is not the number of blocks, it's the the total aggregated difficulty. As long as they new node has one connection with a non-attacker node, he'll fetch the correct chain. Hello all,I'm trying to understand this new cryptocurrency making the buzz lately. Ripple looks interesting. For what I can see, there are two different things in Ripple (as in BTC): the "payment network", a p2p trust-based network, that might be useful in many situations, and  the "ripple currency", a cryptocurrency that does not use a blockchain for consensus.AFAICT, the payment network is totally complementary to Bitcoin. Actually, I think they could have just developed this payment network and have used BTC as settlement currency if they wanted, but it seems they had more ambition.The XRP is not complementary to BTC, though. It's a competitor. And perhaps the first one with potential to shake things on the cryptocurrency world.The main difference between XRP and all BTC-based cryptocurrencies is the fact that the p2p consensus is obtained without the use of a blockchain. That's quite interesting, because a blockchain is an expensive thing to maintain. If XRP consensus can prove itself to be as safe as the blockchain, then I see no reason to keep spending so much money to keep this expensive data structure. If their p2p consensus is really safe, eventually they would beat BTC.So, I started reading about ripple and went right away to the consensus wiki article.After reading it I had a doubt. I imagine there is a solution to this, but I just couldn't find it detailed anywhere.How does this consensus process deal with a fork?With a blockchain it's pretty straightforward: the larger (as in amount of calculus done) chain wins. Simple. Even if a piece of the Internet is temporarily disconnected from the rest of the world, as soon as a single link between them is available, consensus will be once again established by having everybody accepting the largest chain.How does that work with Ripple?Say node A has a UNLa and node B has a UNLb. And suppose the intersection between these two UNLs is small, like, less than 20% of the size of each.Isn't it possible that node A sets on a different Transaction Set than node B? Both nodes will agree with the large majority of their UNL, it just happens that their UNLs don't agree among themselves. Couldn't that "fork" the network, at least temporarily? How does the Ripple protocol avoids and/or fixes such forks?By the way, won't the Ripple people create a forum.ripple.com for questions like this? (so that eventually it gets crowded with trolls saying lots of BS and making those responsible for ripple.com ashamed and, in an elitist attempt not to get mixed with such trolls, kick the forum to a new domain like rippletalk.org or something  ) There's no reason for them to be. Bitcoin remains the same thing even if MtGox disappears tomorrow.People who bought and sold did on their own. It was their actions that set the price downwards, not MtGox. That's irrelevant to this topic. I'm not arguing whether their service is good or bad.I, for one, don't use them. I just find it ridiculous to claim that they "set" the price. The price of everything is set by supply and demand, nothing else.EDIT: And btw, that's how you should express your disagreement with some service provider: just don't use it! Don't cry all over the place with capital letters and make lame accusations, as if MtGox had an obligation in providing you the service you'd like to receive. They have no obligation whatsoever. Not happy with them? Don't use it. Or make a better alternative yourself. Just stop saying bullshit (like blaming them for the price, seriously..) Are we still talking about Bitcoin or you've switched to MtGox stocks without warning me?Seriously... the ability of MtGox to operate should not, by any reasonable, rational analysis, influence in the viability of Bitcoin as an investment - and I'm not even talking as a currency, only as an investment.If hypothetically so many BTC holders are influenced in their decision to hold or sell by things like MtGox lag or lack of support, then it just shows they have no idea about Bitcoin in the first place, and should probably not be investing in it. And if so many people bought without having any idea of what they were doing, then it was just a matter of time for it to collapse, in spite of MtGox very existence.Criticize MtGox as much as you want, I don't care. But please wake up to the fact that they do not set the price. Bitcoiners "set" the price, collectively, by buying and selling. If it's only a panic caused by such lag, then why haven't the price recovered so far?It makes no sense to claim that the demand for Bitcoin is a function of MtGox health or competence. Either people want to hold bitcoins or they don't, and that has nothing to do with the efficiency of MtGox. (and if there are people whose decision to hold or sell bitcoins is influenced by MtGox health, then sorry, but these people should not have bought any bitcoin at all - and it's still not MtGox fault that they sold out, but their own)It's not MtGox that makes the price, it's the people that buy and sell. That should not be hard to understand. rfxMGrsSu7ujxbSq1hFetkwduQrPaXxSKR If these Bitcoin holders really wanted to hold Bitcoins, that would be no reason to start selling. And even if it was, they would have already bought back.No, the price fall has nothing to do with MtGox problems. It has to do with lots of people buying Bitcoin just because it was rising fast, in an attempt to make money out of it. And then selling when they thought it was about time.It's quite simple actually. Supply and demand. Unless you're claiming that bitcoins' demand is so intimately linked with MtGox health, your argument has no ground. Honestly I see no reason why the demand for bitcoins would be linked to MtGox, it doesn't make much sense. But if it really is the case, then it's even better that this part of the demand disappears and leaves the space to those who want bitcoins because they understand Bitcoin and its potentials, and for those who are actually using it for something else other than a store of value. Only 32 bits, yeah.But the timestamp is also part of the header. And the miner can manipulate coinbase as he wants, what changes the Merkle Root which is also part of the header. There's no easy way to enforce a "correct" timestamp on blocks, so some variance is accepted.(I guess some miners also use the timestamp as a nonce, and that means that if you can produce more than 232 hashes per second you'll likely mine on blocks with "distorted" timestamps) I've seen many people on these boards attempting to input this recent price fall on MtGox issues.I'm sorry, but this is just silly. The price fell because too many people sold at once. These were mostly, IMHO, people who had bought bitcoins without even knowing what the hell they were doing - they only saw the price increasing like crazy and decided to get in.The price soared insanely fast and now it has fallen. This shouldn't be such a surprise.I'm not trying to defend Gox or anything (although I think that, if you're not satisfied with them, either use someone else or open your own exchange*, instead of complain like a baby that wants everything delivered to him). But blaming them for the price fall is just not fair. The price fell because too many people panicked too easily and started selling, that's all. Blame these chickens who don't get Bitcoin if you want a scapegoat, not MtGox.* I realize that now it's much more complicated to open your own exchange due to different state rulings, and it's thus impossible for most. But still, if you want to criticize someone for this, it's your government, not MtGox, that you should target. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Confirmation It's not irrelevant at all. Inflation is never "neutral". Some people will always receive the money first, and will drain wealth from the lasts to receive the new money. (it seems you understand that by your comment, but then how do you say it's irrelevant?) All I can say is that if you get this emotive about 0.08 BTC, perhaps you should not be buying Bitcoins at all. You might have a heart attack or something. Yeah, this is not very clear, and I'm not even sure it's true.I opened a topic in Hebrew section, perhaps someone in loco will have something to say. Hello,Is it true what's being reported here? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=173108Please comment on that topic if you have more info. Thanks. That's not what I understood from OP. It seems that banks are forbidding people to send money to MtGox.+1 The most oppressive, no doubt. So far only business were being censored, never individuals. Bah... un dépend d'un serveur central, l'autre non.... Oui. Il n'y a que P2Pool qui n'est pas à ma connaissance.Tu trouveras tes réponses sur le wiki, je suis un peu pressé là pour tout expliquer. (peut-être quelqu'un d'autre le ferra à ma place?)Mais en gros personne n'est "choisi", c'est celui qui produit un block dont le hash est acceptable selon la difficulté courante qui "gagne". Le réseau essaye de régler cette difficulté pour que ça se passe une fois à chaque 10 min en moyenne, mais il y a une bonne variance. Aren't people in US allowed to start trading small volumes without verifying?I think verification is only mandatory for Europeans, but I'm not sure. On ne s'en fous pas des performances, au contraire, elles sont fréquemment en train d'améliorer. Il y a eu du gros progrès dans la 0,8 par ex.Les développeurs travaillent soigneusement pour améliorer ces performances sans mettre le logiciel (et donc tous les bitcoins) en péril. Si tu n'es pas satisfait de leurs progrès, tu es toujours libre pour collaborer toi aussi. Râler dans un forum est facile mais n'aide pas énormément, tu sais...Le point de mon message précédant c'était de dire que Bitcoin est parfaitement capable de monter en échelle. Si tu ne le crois pas, peux-tu me le dire pourquoi? Ils vont se laisser faire par leur concurrents alors?(et d'ailleurs, ce n'est même pas CPU le principal point d'étranglement pour Bitcoin, c'est plutôt IO et bande passante).
Nah, adding decimal places is... "weird". Soon we'll have to express prices in scientific notation. Just express your prices in mBTC, I think it's about time. One mBTC is worth more than 10 cents of dollar already. Instead of saying an item costs 0.12 BTC, just say it costs 120 mBTC, for example.Well, these are just my 2 millies.  Le terme "miner" est un peu ambigu. Il y a ceux qui calculent les hashs, il y a ceux qui génèrent les blocks, et il y a ceux qui font les deux. Seulement ceux qui génèrent les blocks ont besoin d'avoir la base des données complète, ceux qui ne font que calculer les hashs n'ont pas ce besoin. En gros, ça dépend de ce que tu fais:Solo miners: Ils génèrent les blocks et calculent les hashs tous seuls, sans se mettre dans un pool. Ils ont besoin du client complet.P2Pool miners: Ils travaillent dans un pool décentralisé, ce qui leur oblige à être capables de générer les blocks, donc ils ont besoin du client complet.Mineurs de pools centralisés: Ils ne font que calculer des hashs, ils ne génèrent pas de blocks. Pas besoin donc du client complet.Pool operators: Ils génèrent les blocks que ses mineurs vont hasher. Ils ont donc besoin du client complet.La base de données grandit exponentiellement car l'utilisation de Bitcoin grandit exponentiellement. Éventuellement l'utilisation va stabiliser. Quand ça arrive, la BD va grandir linéairement . Les ressources matériels, en revanche, continueront à grandir de façon exponentielle. Cela ne m'étonnerait pas si dans 20 ans on soit capable d'avoir un client complet dans un téléphone.Il se peut, au pire des cas, que dans un future moyen terme les ressources nécessaires pour avoir un client complet soient d'un niveau "pro", c'est à dire, il va falloir en mettre de l'argent et en faire son métier. Mais rappelons-nous que ces mineurs, particulièrement les opérateurs des pools, sont rémunérés pour ça. Tu peux consulter cette page si la montée en échelle t'intéresse: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ScalabilityOui. Apparently you're not yet following this awesome thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=154954.0;all You set your selling price. If you're a big seller and don't want to "crash" the market, build your wall at the price you believe there will buyers. If the big London buyers really want that much, they'll consume your wall.What are the actual purposes of a darkpool? It'd work exactly the same way, only without announcing the wall. So what? The end price will necessarily be the same, i.e., the result of supply and demand. I never understood this hypothetical logic of dark pools. It's as if you were claiming that supply and demand only affects price when deals are made publicly, but that's obviously not true. Prices are driven by supply and demand regardless of whether there is a "public market" or not. Throwing one gigabuck at Bitcoin will certainly produce a tsunami in the price, with or without dark pools. You can already say that if you use the monetary base (M0) instead of M1. These 11M bitcoins we are using in this calculation are Bitcoin's monetary base and M1/2/3/4 as Bitcoin has no fiduciary money so far. Bitcoin is real.Physical != real. Otherwise, no fiat money would be real either. That's not true. There's practically no actual use of gold bullion as medium of exchange. It's mostly a store of value. Bitcoin can be a store of value too. States are getting more and more desperate for money..... this is not going to end well. It would be a good thing if everything were to collapse the soonest possible, so that they have the political excuse to default on these monstrous debts for once and for good.  I'd like to agree with you but I'm not sure your reasoning stands. Something being illegal is irrelevant if the said illegality is not actually enforced. And AFAIK, no Chinese resident has ever been punished for using Bitcoin, so I'd say the law you cite is pretty much irrelevant price-wise, for the moment at least.EDIT: He, the irony is that, if they make it illegal to use any virtual currency, then every fiat currency of this world should be illegal too. Or do they make an explicit exception for fiat currencies? Gold was money for millenia and could certainly become money again.. well, if there wasn't a better alternative right here. ;-)Concerning price fluctuations, it's only so wild because the demand fluctuations for bitcoin are wild, because new people "enter and leave" daily. The day that the number of people entering and leaving Bitcoin-world is small compared to number of people already in, you'll have the price stability you want. Cypriots likely used to think the same... Il faut que tu trouves une exchange qui accepte de virement SEPA.MtGox, Bitcoin-central, BitStamp en sont des exemples. Il y a d'autres.Autrement, tu peux aussi utiliser des système d'échange entre personnes, comme localbitcoins ou bitcoinary. Hum, ça m'intrigue, car d'après ce que je connaissais sur blockchain.info, ils gardaient carrement un fichier pour toi avec tes clés, chiffré avec ton mot de passe. Ce fichier doit être envoyé au client pour qu'il le déchiffre et signe les transactions.Un malware qui choppe ce fichier + le mot de passe pourrait donc te voler. Comment marche-t-il leur authentification à 2-facteurs? Est-ce qu'ils sont déjà en train d'utiliser multisig? Dans ce cas c'est super!Je vois que je dois relire leur FAQ. S'ils utilisent multsig, ce n'est plus vrai; il faut leur clé à eux pour dépenser. S'ils n'utilisent pas multisig, je ne vois pas comment ils peuvent empêcher un malware de te piquer avec cette authentification à 2-facteurs.EDIT: Depuis leur page de support:Donc c'est comme je croyais, un malware qui te pique le fichier et le mot de passe (pas super compliqué) peut te piquer ton argent. Il n'as pas besoin d'accéder blockchain.info pour le dépenser donc le 2-factor est inutile dans ce cas. Perhaps they're already getting ready? http://mashable.com/2013/04/02/western-union-bitcoin/ Malheureusement aujourd'hui ces solutions demandent un peu de geekisme de ta part.Par ex, si tu as un vieux pc qui tu n'utilise plus à rien, tu pourrais lui consacrer à ça. Formates-le, et suit ça: https://bitcoinarmory.com/using-offline-wallets-in-armory/Sinon, tu peux faire un truc similaire avec un système Live dans une clef USB. Pas bcp.Si on te choppe ton mot de passe, tu perds tout. Et tout simplement en navigant le web tu peux finir dans des sites 'dangereux' qui peuvent exploiter une faille dans ton système pour t'infecter, même si toi tu y est pour rien.L'idéale est un portefeuille qui n'est jamais accédée à partir d'un système utilisé pour naviguer dans la web. Please, that's mercantilist reasoning. It was debunked a couple centuries ago.Swiss were doing very well with the strong CHF. Their purchasing power was rising yearly. Now, to temporarily protect a small sector of their society (exporters), they will impoverish their entire society and all those who hold CHF! That's pure nonsense. Why everybody should have their purchasing power decreased in order to save a less efficient sector of their society?And btw, many exporters also benefit from a strong purchasing power, as they also import some inputs to their business.  Hey BitcoinStore, time to start displaying prices in mBTC, don't you think?  You just showed with this bad attempt of irony that you're not really aware about SPV.BitcoinJ is a SPV node, which already uses bloom filters. MultiBit and Android Wallet are two clients which use BitcoinJ. 
We're not "obfuscating" anything. The danger you mention is comparable to the danger of running a piece of open source software without having previously read the entire source code and acquired a full understanding of how it works, before trusting to run it on your wallet.dat.Thankfully, we can rest assured that a large enough number of people have already made such validation, as it's open to anyone to do it. Any attempt to insert bogus data, either on the source or on the blockchain, will be quickly spot. In the case of running full nodes particularly, there will always be more people capable of doing it - and actually doing it - than there are people capable of fully understanding Bitcoin source code.I agree with that Bitcoin Magazine article that says that in 20 years, everybody will be capable of running a full node. The blockchain grows linearly once the adoption rate stabilizes. Hardware resources grow exponentially.Precisely. It's extremely difficult to lie to a SPV node. You need to be the only one it connects to, and still all you'll manage to do is hide stuff from it, not "invent" fake transactions. I meant it works in a p2p fashion, not in a client-server fashion, as it connects to multiple nodes. It's "decentralized" if you prefer. You just need to point Bitcoin-QT to your data dir. I think it's -datadir=... or something. Keep backups of your wallet, of course.No need to back up the blockchain, there are already plenty of copies around the world.  I'd say ultimately it's the main services (MtGox, Bitpay, BitInstant, BitcoinStore, WalletBit, Silk Road etc) that will decide. If they all stay at the same side of the fork, that will likely be the side that "wins", regardless of Gavin or even miners' will (most miners would just follow the money).Of course that services have a strong interest in staying on the branch that's more professionally supported by developers, so yeah, if most of the core team goes to one side, we could predict most of these services would too. Blockchain growth is only exponential as long as Bitcoin usage growth is exponential. Whenever usage stabilizes, blockchain growth will be linear, and bandwidth consumption will stabilize, while storage resources and connection speeds will remain growing exponentially. So, at most, there will be a medium term future in which running a full node requires a professional amount of resources, but as resources keep growing exponentially and Bitcoin consumption of said resources keeps growing linearly, eventually everybody will be able to run full nodes on their phones.And remember, for sending and receiving money safely, you can use a SVP client. Those require much less resources. You can run a full p2p SVP client on your phone right now.(Btw, if I'm not mistaken in the fast calculations I've just made, it would take almost 200 years to reach 10Tb by growing 144Mb per day... I know this growth rate will increase beyond these 144Mb, but from where do you take this "soon we'll need 10Tb" figure? What's "soon"?) Since 0.8 it became perfectly possible to run Bitcoin with its data dir in an USB disk, so I'm currently doing that to save space in my main disk (which is quite small).Concerning your question, It's currently growing at no more than 250Kb per block, with ~144 blocks per day that should be at most ~36Mb of daily growth (it's actually less than that, not every block's hitting 250Kb). After May 15th, that growth rate might rise. It will take a hard-fork change for it to rise above 144Mb per day though, due to the 1Mb cap.You can follow the total size here: http://blockchain.info/charts/blocks-size Repeating what was already said once again: you can safely transact without being a full node. On the other hand, what's the point in being a full node if you can't even transact since there's no more room in the blockchain for your transactions? Great post Mike! You should create a topic with it in the OP, as it deserves more than to be buried here in the 7th page of this topic. Hum, are you sure about that? I'd like to know what happened to the market price of gold in US during the ban of the 30s...If Bitcoin is aggressively banned everywhere, then I'd agree with you. But if it's still allowed in a significant number of places, I don't think so. You can also show all pages and then use Ctrl+F.... Se você passa o dia fazendo day-trade, aí de fato não vejo outra alternativa a deixar a quantidade de BTCs com as quais você negocia no site.Mas quantas pessoas realmente vivem de day-trade? Não acho que seja uma porcentagem tão alta. E mesmo os que fazem, não precisam ter todas as moedas no site num dado momento, e podem "repatriá-las" sempre que pararem de "trabalhar".  Não acompanhei todos os detalhes, mas não pude deixar de notar a quantidade de brasileiros nervosos com o incidente no Mercado Bitcoin. Vi gente dizendo ter até 2k BTC estocados lá.Porra galera. Vocês não aprenderam nada com todo o histórico de incidentes do tipo até aqui? Não pretendo questionar a idoneidade ou a competência do Leandro César, até porque as ignoro. Mas, até onde eu sei, o serviço era operado unicamente por ele, e estocava uma Hot Wallet sem multisig. Por mais competente que ele seja, era ele sozinho contra todos os hackers mal intencionados do planeta! Todo hacker que merece o nome sabe o que são Bitcoins, e conhece portanto os serviços que possuem hot wallets. Esses serviços serão sistematicamente visados! Seres humanos cometem erros, e era só questão de tempo até o Leandro cometer um e deixar um ataque passar. Mas o que é pior é que isso já aconteceu N vezes nos sites gringos. Vocês não acompanham o que acontece fora do Brasil? Acham que o mundo tupiniquim tem alguma diferença fundamental, que o que acontece fora do país não vai se reproduzir no Brasil? Por que diabos vocês mantinham quantias significativas de bitcoins numa eWallet?Aprender com os próprios erros é normal e parte da vida. Mas muito melhor é aprender com os erros dos outros. E, nesse caso, oportunidades não faltaram! Fiquem espertos, povo!Espero realmente que o Leandro consiga se recuperar e reembolsar uma quantidade significativa do montante de seus clientes. Espero que a principal (única?) casa de câmbio brasileira seja restabelecida. Mas espero, principalmente, que todo mundo aprenda a lição de uma vez por todas e não estoquem bitcoins numa eWallet por mais tempo do que o estritamente necessário. E sobre como estocar de maneira segura suas as próprias Bitcoins, não faltam tópicos nesse fórum explicando (paperwallets, offline wallets etc...) The following link takes into account both inflation and price fluctuations: http://bitcoin.zinetsolutions.be/I think it's nice to keep the topic title pointing to the country we haven't yet passed, not even for a while. I find this "enhanced-SWIFT" aspiration for Bitcoin so limited compared to everything it can do.... but anyway, I'll stop here in order not to derail this thread. On Lack of applications, that's a non-issue. The amount of applications Bitcoin has today is orders of magnitude higher than what it had 2 years ago. And it will likely keep rising.On Scalability, it's perfectly possible to make it scalable. Of course, that will likely provoke a fork, with some people gripping strongly to the unscalable version. That will provoke price turbulence, bad press, but in the end, the scalable Bitcoin will rise out of all this mess as it has done before.On Losses, it's a true problem, but it will become much less relevant once devices like Trezor are easily available.Regulation is definitely the strongest of the risks he cites. It's unpredictable how far governments can go. All "WU offices" I've ever seen were either cyber cafés or post offices. What they're worth and how they're supposed to be used is not up to any single individual or group to decide.Dust may be used as a way to send messages. Dust may be used in Smart Property contracts. Whatever.My point is that what you're making here is a "judgement of value", and that's not up to the Bitcoin infrastructure to make. It's the users that should choose how they spend their coins. As long as they pay for the service being provided (and whether they're paying enough or not is up to miners to decide), and as long as the infrastructure is protected against attacks (DoS), everything is fine.Please don't embed judgments of value in Bitcoin's backend.I thought it was you that came up with the concept of standard and non-standard transactions.... it was there since the beginning? Bitcoin can surely scale. It can be larger than Visa in less than 5 years, if there's enough demand.True, some people seem determined to do what they can to prevent that from happening. I think we'll end up having a fork at some point. Some people will remain on the old fork where no more than 7tps can happen, and others will migrate to the new, scalable Bitcoin. WU would have to be on the scalable branch, of course. Exactly what I thought. But it's indeed hard to believe such a large corporation would have the guts to restructure itself this way. Many internal branches would have to be cut. There's lots of politics inside these large corporations. The people in charge would have to be very bold and ready to make lots of people very unhappy. M1 = bank accounts + cash. D&T made the same remark, to which I responded above. You'd had to filter which you would relay, and then priority vs fees kicks in. The only difference is that it's not a binary decision (has/hasn't enough fees to get relayed), it's just a way of sorting what gets relayed from what does not. You may end up relaying a transaction that today would not be relayed if there's enough "room" for it.That's nice, better than what is done today and better than what I was saying above. Much more flexible. Nice. Why not applying the same logic you described above? (they only get dropped if they can't fit in your memory pool)
The blockchain would not get that big since these transactions would never be included in a block. For block inclusion, miners have a strong interest in setting their own anti-spam rules, bitcoind only needs to make it configurable.The problem is relaying. If your transaction doesn't follow the hard-coded anti-DoS fees it might never reach a miner which would be willing to include it.Maybe the priority calculation should only come into place if you're receiving more transactions than you can relay without breaking the max KB/s value, or if your memory pool is full (configurable max size for pool).But the priority calculation should not be "binary" (has enough fees, doesn't have enough fees), but rather a way of knowing which transactions to discard first (normally the attacker's transactions would be the firsts discarded, unless he's willing to spend money on his attack, in which case it'd be more of a donation to miners than an actual attack).Do you see my point? I realize it would shift from "hardcoded minimum fee" to "hardcoded max bandwidth/memory consumption", but at least the latter seems more coherent with anti-DoS purposes. It would also need to be updated once in a while to reflect increases in available resources, but that happens less often than bitcoin's price movements IMHO. +1Wouldn't it be even better to stop using fees as anti-DoS?Why can't we detect DoS by simply measuring the amount of data a peer is sending? If it goes beyond X KB/s, we stop storing and relaying transactions coming from this peer, eventually we disconnect from it and temporarily ban its IP locally. X could be configurable, in case there's a strong need to change the defaults without a release.Would that be too difficult to implement?I never liked this "fees as anti-DoS" thing.... If your computer was not shared with anyone, encrypting your wallet would not have saved your coins. If an attacker manages to install something at your computer, this something can simply wait until you type the password in and then your coins are gone.Encrypting your wallet only protects against physical theft of the media containing the wallet.Not using Windows is certainly a much strong security approach than encrypting your wallet. You should consider it. Even better: your bitcons should be in a system which never access the Internet. Of course that's not super convenient as of now, so what I normally suggest is keeping two wallets: one offline, and another, with a smaller amount you could afford to lose, in a machine (preferably not Windows) that's used for Internet access. AFAIK, WU moves fiat around the globe, and handles currency conversion. You give them USD, and they deposit INR in some Indian account you specified, for ex.They could potentially decrease their costs by using Bitcoin as intermediary currency. That would work particularly well if they were acting as exchanges too. They could do it incrementally, for example, at a first moment, only use BTC as intermediary for (some) USD<->EUR transactions, since the liquidity of these markets (BTC/USD and BTC/EUR) is better than any other. Thanks dooglus. Mine was off. I don't think so, otherwise every RPC-command should contain the encryption password as a parameter. I believe you unlock the wallet while starting the service. Or the RPC-authentication password is also the wallet encryption password (don't think so either because RPC is much older than wallet encryption).You may check https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/API_reference_(JSON-RPC) for better info.EDIT: Just checked and there are explicit RPC calls to lock and unlock the wallet. The wallet was then likely not encrypted, or encrypted with a weak password. That was irrelevant. The RPC was open, and the authentication password was weak.EDIT: To be honest I actually don't know if, when starting bitcoind as a RPC server, you have to open your encrypted wallet by typing the password. I'm assuming that's the case, what renders wallet encryption irrelevant. Does the same apply to Chromium? But the formula remains arbitrary. You can't come up with an algorithm capable of measuring actual demand and actual supply, since these units are impossible to measure. So you can't really know how many security is demanded (remember, demand is subjective!), nor how such demand would compete for Earth's scarce resources. You need to be omniscient to know all that. The difficulty target aims to make one block at every 10min. But why 10min? This is an arbitrary value. It may be too much sometimes, too little at other times. It's certainly not optimal. That said, it's not such a big deal, and trying to improve it would not be worth the risks.Concerning mining remuneration, if we can go directly to spontaneous order - and that's the closest you'll ever get from "optimal" -, then why not? Why try to come up with arbitrary formulas? That would be "presumption of knowledge".SD is not flooding anything. They're not attacking the network, Bitcoin users want to use their services.Of all business, they're likely the one that has mostly contributed to miners via transaction fees.Miners have no interest in keeping a "monster block". And they can easily choose not to build on top of such block, unless it is N blocks deep already, what would likely get the monster block rejected by the network. I believe their motive is to try to convince those who want to cripple Bitcoin to a 1Mb block size limit that such crippling is not a good idea...I used to support such idea, until I realize that a dynamic cap implies in an arbitrary formula, and that's an attempt to guess subjective demands and unpredictable supplies. It's impossible, and fortunately, not necessary. O mercado bitcoin fazia cold storage? Vi muitas mensagens aí de gente estocando altas granas na eWallet do Mercado Bitcoin... pô galera, vocês não acompanham o que acontece não? eWallets são hackeadas direto... e, até onde eu sei, o Mercado era um one-man-show. Um cara sozinho contra todos os hackers do planeta (sim, todos os malditos hackers do planeta sabem oq é Bitcoin, e vão tentar roubar o primeiro site que der um deslize)... por mais competente que ele seja, é arriscado. Espero que a porcentagem de Bitcoins em cold storage seja alta. On the terminology: https://mises.org/daily/908 Inflation is not elegant at all. It's the worst way to charge people. It's disguised, distributes its load on people who are not creating the load, etc. Even in the context of a voluntary currency, it's almost dishonest. In the context of legal tender, it being theft is not a "fundamentalist stance", it's a fact.Sure it does. That's the very definition of monetary inflation.You're confusing monetary inflation with price increases. I know, read my first post in this thread.But countries M0s are not the same as their M1. It would be more reasonable to compare with their M0, since the day Bitcoin start to have fiduciary money, it will have aggregates that are larger than this so-called "market cap". And btw, if you compare with M0, we've already passed much more countries, since M0 <= M1. I did not find a ranking of countries per M0 TDV though.... That's what I taught when I saw it.They claim you can buy at any site in the world. Really? So I can have something shipped from Iran here to me in France, for instance? Will they handle any currency conversion, get through all financial embargos etc?The idea is cool, but what it claims to do seems impossible. It seems you made some mistakes with your quotes there...Answering your question: If mixers end up segregated among "blacklisted" and "non-blacklisted", somebody receiving coins coming out of "mostly blacklisted mixers" would be able to:Know the coins have a high degree of blacklisted taintKnow the coins likely got through some mixer (that's visible)These two things might lead people to believe that those coins might be hiding something. That alone is not enough to prosecute anybody (at least not in places where the most basic justice principles are still respected, like innocent until proven guilty), but it might give some tips. My point is that this thread is comparing Bitcoin's M0 TDV with these countries M1 TDV. Comparing against countries M0 would be more coherent (and would make the list much larger ). But I did not find a ranking of countries per M0.... If the majority of coins being mixed are tainted, you would still get tainted coins out. True, that should make it difficult to discover which particular taint applies to you, but tainting only should never be enough to criminalize anybody anyway. The whole idea, if I got it right, was to help law enforcement to find criminals.What I'm saying is that the coins getting out of this "blacklisted mixers" would still sound some alarms... Cool thread!But why M1? Why not M0, since in Bitcoin there's no fractional reserve banking (Bitcoin M0 == M1). I think it's more reasonable... The "market cap" is the Bitcoin's monetary base times its unit price.EDIT: The point I'm trying to make is that, currently, for Bitcoin, M0==M1==M2==M3, i.e., Bitcoin has no monetary aggregates since it has no fiduciary money. But if one day Bitcoin start having some fiduciary money, the so called "market cap" (number of issued coins X price) would represent Bitcoin's M0, not its M1. So I'd say it's more reasonable to compare it with countries' M0 (also called monetary base).Bitcoin's M0 is already larger than that of Iceland and certainly many others.  This assurance contract theory is interesting, but I don't view merchants themselves doing the pledges.Perhaps insurance+assurance would work better. The merchant only wants to be sure he won't be defrauded. He pays an insurance contract for his transactions. Insurers want to make sure the network has enough hash rate to make it unlikely that many of their insured transactions get double-spent, so they may start these pledges. Other insurers may contribute.I don't think merchants themselves would start the pledges because that would involve complex calculations (how much is enough?) whose results would change frequently. Merchants wouldn't want to be bothered with such things.
The whole point of all these discussions is to come up with spontaneous/natural/market-based ways to finance the work that is done for the blockchain, and not just arbitrarly pick some magic numbers or formulas and impose them via the protocol.The inflation rate is necessarily an "arbitrary formula". Satoshi was wise to put an asymptotic cap on it.If you use an arbitrary number/formula, there's just no way of knowing if this number really reflects the amount of security the network needs. It's likely to be higher (but it can also be lower), meaning that the resources being spent on such security would be better spent elsewhere (or are not enough). It's the knowledge problem Hayek talks about. You'd have to be omniscient to know what's the optimal formula, and it would need to change constantly.Finally, inflation is even worse than just an arbitrary transaction fee, as you don't put the load on those who create the load. You force every holder to pay, regardless of how many UTXO they're creating. Oh sorry, I misread what you wrote. You were talking about an increase in circulation of a particular kind of bill. I thought you were referring to an amount. I think I was sleeping while all this happened.Could somebody please explain me one thing.... The whole point of this "version 2 blocks" was just to include the height in the coinbase? I mean... can't the height just be calculated? Couldn't local databases add the height on their data, in an extra field of some kind? Need it be on the protocol?I fail to see why going through all this hassle just to add the block height to coinbase... Centralized pool operators. Unfortunately that's not new. They've been attacked by these botnet operators for a while. The botnets attack pools in which they're not mining in order to increase the revenues of the pools they're mining in (and thus, their revenues). Some pool operators are already using high-bandwidth ISPs specialized in DDoS protection.Let's hope ASICs makes mining no longer interesting for botnet operators, and perhaps then they'll leave pools alone. DDoS is an arm wrestling. The one with more bandwidth wins. If the botnet operator is aiming at a single bitcoiner, then this bitcoiner is likely in trouble. But the entire network? His botnet would need more bandwidth than the bandwidth of the entire network combined. Quite unlikely.Or do you mean DoS through the Bitcoin protocol itself, like trying to flood fake transactions and such? Bitcoin peers have a series of protections against that. The attacker would have to spend a fortune in transaction fees. Are you sure you meant 1K? That should be a rounding error... Precisely!I also live in France and that's the feeling I get. Many colleagues of mine (computer people, you know, those who live in the Internetz...) weren't even aware of what's going on. I'm the one who brings the subject up most frequently. People here don't seem to be worried at all.It seems many French citizens believe that France is somehow immune to all these Euro-zone turmoils ("Quand même, on est en France!"). I think they should review their beliefs for their own sake... The banks should definitely fail. What I'm repeatedly describing here is how a bank failure should proceed.Where do you think such money would come from? The tooth fairy?These state-backed insurances rely on the barrel of a gun (as everything else backed by states). Why should Cypriot (or worse, EU) tax-victims be forced to finance the risk-taking of those who invested in these banks going down? Only those who took the risk should lose. People who had no relation with the failing banks should not be stolen.Again, read this (as apparently you did not): http://detlevschlichter.com/2013/03/cyprus-and-the-reality-of-banking-deposit-haircuts-are-both-inevitable-and-the-right-thing-to-do/WTF!? I don't want to bail out any bank. And how the hell did you conclude I'm nationalist??Seriously, would you mind at least reading what I write before blasting such ridiculous accusations?The fact that so many outrageous injustices are practiced in US is not an excuse to practice them anywhere else.WTFx2? Do you even... I mean... And you dare link me to word definitions...  The recession is inevitable. It's the inexorable consequence of an artificial creation of credit through inflation. The best (less worse) way of dealing with it is letting bad investments die, let companies fail, the quickest possible. The worst way of dealing with it is by pushing the problem further with the creation of more money/credit, or by increasing government spendingThat'd be great. Sigh... Have you read the text I linked to above? Here, I link it again: http://www.economicpolicyjournal.com/2013/03/peter-schiff-on-cyprus.htmlAlso, read this: http://detlevschlichter.com/2013/03/cyprus-and-the-reality-of-banking-deposit-haircuts-are-both-inevitable-and-the-right-thing-to-do/And then, read my previous posts on this thread.And stop saying BS, please. These banks are going down, some people are going to lose money. Better it be those who invested in said banks than tax-victims who had nothing to do with the problem. Even worse would be forcing all EUR holders to pay. Of course, for the 100th time, the bank shareholders should lose all, they should not be saved at the expense of their clients. And ideally those who made riskier investments should be cut before those who simply held checking accounts. And every creditor or client of the bank that loses something should receive a proportional share of the bank's assets in return. Why not? Peter Schiff on Cyprus Well, translating is less important for now. Bitcoins is still not that user friendly. People that can't read English would likely have a hard time learning enough about Bitcoin.And plus, you can't translate memes. I was thinking of the following: the ad starts with the geek meme "Government steals bank deposits... Bitcoin User Not Affected". Then, the One Does Not Simply Confiscate Bitcoins meme. Both narrated in English. Then, if the user keeps watching, we concatenate the we use coins video - this one could come with subtitles. How much do ads cost on Youtube?Maybe we could pledge to add this 4s video as an ad targeting Spain, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Ireland.Actually, we could put 2 memes, the one of the irritating geek, then this one One Does Not Simply...What do you think?It would be particularly interesting if you can pay incrementally (the more you pay, more views you get, but you can start small). hehe, I thought that too.Congratulations Bitpay. You've just raised the bar significantly. As many others here, I'm very uneasy with the possibility of Bitcoin losing fungibility.But anyway, this is undeniable:It's perfectly possible to implement such thing. It's actually possible to implement much nastier things (think of a government-mandated whitelist). Mike Hearn has a point when he says that, in the event of a government trying to impose its regulation, the usage of a totally voluntary and decentralized system like this is preferable. But, should we be "compromising in advance"? Wouldn't that be "negotiating against ourselves"?Governments can do much worse than killing Bitcoin fungibility. The problem, as always, are governments themselves, not this voluntary system Mike is proposing.Perhaps we should focus on implementing p2p, anonymous mixing services. Such mixing systems would be essential to keep the "market-based checks-and-balances" Mike describes in OP, if such system ever comes to existence. How do you know this? Do they publish these numbers somewhere? Are you really arguing that it would be better to push the problem further into the future with inflation??EU created this mess years ago, precisely due to creating too many "accounting entries in their computers" to buy debt bonds from many of its sub-governments. This crisis is the natural consequence.Of course that it would be fairer to take all assets from banksters, but inflating the problem into the future is definitely worse than what's being done. WTF... I mean, I know Brazilian authoritarian capital controls render arbitrage difficult... but that much!? Literally, I'd say. I mean, if it's really true that the Russian mob has stashes of money on Cypriot banks..... I don't think it's a safe thing to take 40% of their money like this. Their bottle appears in the beginning (it's their bottle isn't it?) and the name "Neft" is written on one of the airplanes of the hangar.Plus, this: 
No shit, Sherlock?Sorry for the irony, but where did I say the opposite? I'm repeating post after post that bank shareholders should lose everything, and get absolutely nothing in return.Their clients will inevitably have to lose something too, but they should at least receive the bank's assets in return.This "sick financial world" only exists mainly due to central bank's monopoly on money supply. Add to that also all the regulation they impose, creating insurmountable barriers of entry in the banking business.It seems you post in these boards much more than you read and learn from them.All these financial instruments, all these high profits, were only possible due the artificial creation of credit through money supply inflation. Please, study how business cycles are formed.Bravo, jususranvier. This is the most touching topic I've ever seen on these boards.Congratulations for your strength and wisdom Mr Finney. You're one in a million. Ressurecting this topic just to share this cool ad from Neft: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rgox84KE7iY That's kind of yours, thanks.  Why? I don't think that's the case. Yes, the private keys where the money is stored are your backup. Don't lose them. EDIT: That said, please keep in mind that when you make a transaction, the source addresses are fully emptied, even if the amount you want to transfer is smaller than what's contained in these addresses. In such case, the remaining "change" will normally be transferred to a new address of yours (a new private key). If you're geek enough, than try to set up an offline wallet.For convenience, keep your blockchain.info (or other) wallet as secondary, with lower amounts you could eventually afford to lose.Basically, in analogy with fiat, your offline wallet is your bank account and your secondary wallet is the cash on your physical wallet. (of course that, giving the recent banking events, an offline bitcoin wallet seems much safer than a bank account  ) That promise is void since they have no actual means to ethically fulfill them, ever. To fulfill it, they would have to steal innocent people that have nothing to do with the problem.So, in the end, "bank deposit insurances" are just another politician's lie. People must understand that.And do you honestly believe that something of the kind (or worse) won't happen someday? The social security is a clock-bomb ticking. It will blow one day. You can't run away from reality. But that's far from "civilized", it's much worse!Understand one basic thing: the government doesn't produce anything. Every penny it has, it has taken from innocent people. Forcing the taxvictims to pay the burden is way much unfairer. They have nothing to do with the issue!These "account deposit insurances" are an outright lie, an illusion. It's better that people wake up to reality and realize there's nothing guaranteed in life.No, what you say is not a better solution. Bank clients will have to suffer losses if you want anything fair as outcome. Of course, it's fundamental that current shareholders lose everything, but I have a feeling that such thing just won't happen, unfortunately. That would be a worse solution. The EU-taxvictims have nothing to do with this mess. It's less worse to make the bank clients' lose, than to force random people that have nothing to do with it to pay.The EU shouldn't lend anything. The bank shareholders should lose all their ownership. Cuts should be made, starting by risky-investment-clients like bondholders, and then eventually account holders. The new ownership should be transferred to those who suffered such cuts in proportion to the amount they lost.I don't know any better way to deal with a bank failure. Forcing taxvictims to pay is definitely worse. Inflating the money supply to save banks is even worse.Yes, people have been tricked into believing that their bank deposits are "guaranteed". That's just impossible, nothing in life is guaranteed, starting by life itself. But if after all these turmoil in the euro-zone you still believe your bank deposits are "guaranteed", I can only be sorry for you.hehe, sort of. You're not really forced to have a bank account, but it's hard to live without one. And all banks practice fractional reserves, protected by the central bank, so your analogy has some good ground. But hey, that's part of what Bitcoin is here to solve, isn't it? But that's not the issue here. Okay, want to be sovereign and independent of EU? Great. Declare independence. That might solve some problems, but not this particular problem of these major banks which are bankrupt. Although I understand the feeling, this is naive.These banks are broken. It's inevitable, somebody is going to lose money. Either it will be every euro-user via inflation (the worst solution), either will be taxpayersvictims (also awful), or it will be the bank's clients. This last solution is, after all, the least unfair, as long as the current shareholders of these banks lose everything, and shares are given for those clients who suffered a cut.Of course, bondholders and other riskier-investors should suffer cuts before checking account holders, but apparently these banks have very few bondholders, so the haircut on the accounts is inevitable - unless you replace it by something even worse. There are some positive aspects on this Cypriot story.The EU has basically sent a message to other members in difficulties: "We will not save you. You'll have to find your own way out of your mess."I just read a couple of very interesting articles on this debacle:About Cypriot assault (auto-translation, can't find the original in English)Cyprus and the reality of banking: Deposit haircuts are both inevitable and the right thing to doI'm really curious as to what the Cypriot government will do now. That's it? The parliament voted 'No'?What now? They'll let the banks break? Force taxpayers to save them? What? Really?But what's the deal? Are the current stock holders losing their shares?If they're just equating the previous market values of these shares and distributing according to the amount cut this is not fair.The correct way of doing this would be:Remove all shares from current share holders Do the necessary cuts - but here, I think risky or more "long-term" investors should be cut before checking account holders.Distribute the new shares proportionally to the amount you contributed in the rescue. Say, if your cut contributed to 0.1% of the total amount levied, then you'll own 0.1% of the bank. Previous owners lose everything.That's the fairest possible way of dealing with a bank failure I'm aware of.Can you think of a fairest way to deal with a bank failure than what I describe above?At least in this scheme, the current owners lose everything, and the clients that lose something become the new owners, in proportion to what they lost. In other words, those who definitely must be "punished" do lose all, and those who are "punished" simply for having chosen a bad bank at least get something in exchange for it. Every business passes its taxes on to its customers, always. How else are they supposed to operate?That shouldn't be news. This is not true. That are much better ways to liquidate a bank than to cut money from deposits. Listen to Jesus: http://foundationsofecon.blogspot.fr/2012/07/fraud-cause-of-great-recession.html Basically, you remove all ownership from current owners. Then you start taking cuts from the most risky investments clients of that bank had on it. Bank deposits are supposed to be the last ones, since they're hardly considered an "investment". Once you take the necessary amount of resources to save the bank, you redistribute the new ownership among all those who payed for its bailout, proportionally. See the documentary I linked above, Jesus explains it in more detail.This is a much more honest/fair way to let a bank break. The most important is that the current stock holders lose everything, and those who pay for the bailout earn something in exchange (the bank itself). But, of course, politicians aren't going to let that happen, since their wealthy friends wouldn't be very happy with them if they did.Let the damn banks break. And the Brazilian government did it years before (~1991).This is definitely not a first. As hyperinflation, confiscations like this have happened multiple times in different places. Humanity has a hard time learning from its past mistakes. No, they don't. The amount that will be taken will be calculated based on last Friday's balance, if I'm not mistaken. Actually, these amounts are already frozen, as OKPay mail above says. At least while you don't get burgled.
If OKPay sums everything on a single account of theirs, it might fall mostly in the 10% cut. Davout, in Portuguese there's a proverb that translated is something like "Don't spit up, it may fall back on your face".France is not that immune from these kind of heists... nobody in the Eurozone is, actually. Brazil has seen this too. Much worse than 10%. I think something like 80% of all savings accounts was frozen in 1991 (maybe 1990). The money was only released years after, when it was already corroded by (hyper)inflation.Welcome to the Third World, Europeans. I'm sorry, but the contract must explicitly define such things. I'm among the minority group of libertarians that disagree that fractional reserves are inherently fraudulent - they certainly don't need to be. But the terms should all be explicit, otherwise it's indeed a fraud."Implicit contracts" are only tolerable for really obvious things, where no reasonable person would think otherwise (classic example: you invite me for a ride on your boat: there's an implicit agreement that you'll bring me back to the shore, and not order me to leave your property in the middle of the sea) There's no national TV you mean? There must be at least a national radio, then?(Doing the advertising on a Greek TV channel that happens to be broadcasted in Cyprus too wouldn't be bad at all either... it would kill two birds with a single stone... granted, a more expensive stone, but likely worthwhile...) Let the Trezor guys finish their product. (or eventually somebody else).Drop the crippling 1Mb per block limit.There you go, you have safe wallets for end users and a network capable of handling the load.(I understand that "dropping the 1Mb" might take some time to be done safely though) It can't remain locked forever. And there are multiple ways to move money around. Localbitcoins could see some increasing traffic from Cyprus, if only Cypriots were more aware of Bitcoin... (and a good part of the money being sold via localbitcoins would likely have been bought via exchanges, so they could still profit from some advertising) Theoretically it could have. I don't know how it would work out though. Would the generator have a BDB error when trying to persist his own block and then abandon it, or would it manage to attempt a propagation and then get rejected by everybody else?That said, the demand for such large blocks is recent. Probably the event of generating such problematic block never happened before simply because there was no demand for it. Regardless of whether you want to kick that nerd's face or not, OP has a great point. This is a great moment for Bitcoin.If I were MtGox, Bitcoin-central, or any other SEPA-zone exchange, I'd be considering making some advertising on Cypriot television. Perhaps these exchanges could group together to pay for a collective ad. Something briefly explaining why Bitcoin is not affected by such confiscation ("decentralized network not controlled by any single authority, be it bankers or governments"). I'm not into marketing so I'm probably not the best person to come up with such ad. But I'm sure there are talented people around here that could create a great one.This is the moment to start hitting some "mainstream" folks, at least in Cyprus! If I was MtGox, I'd be seriously considering some advertising on Cyprus national television by now. Explaining to people how "Bitcoin users are not affected" by such taxation, and also saying that this has already been happening stealthily for years due to euro inflation. Signing any message with the genesis block coinbase key. Unless Satoshi lives in a country whose government truly respects its subjects' financial privacy (I'm not aware of any), spending any substantial amount of his coins without declaring them might get him in trouble with the tax man.Declaring and paying taxes on them might ruin his anonymity.It's possible he's simply trapped by this, holding onto his coins, waiting for an eventual future solution to pop up. Perhaps it's saying that you'll need to add a fee for your transaction to propagate? Price is always "fair" if coercion is not being used to set it.So, yeah, the current price is fair, and wherever it goes, it will remain fair. If you're willing to go as far as that, why not homesteading Antarctica?I'm not convinced the per capita costs of living on such hostile places is really higher than the cost of building sea platforms. Not to mention that bootstrapping would be much more complicated, as you really need to isolate yourself. Bootstrapping a seastead in places like the Mediterranean or the Caribbean would probably be much easier.I would never be among the pioneers of an "icestead", and I'm a libertarian and a great fan of the concept of seastead. But well, I already have a hard time understanding how can so many people handle life in places like Canada, Russia or Scandinavia... I'm definitely not made for these frozen places. Did you see the guy's comment?"With Bitcoin we may run into regulatory issues".Fuck you, EFF, for being the first to disseminate such FUD.Even Wordpress accepts Bitcoin, what would escrow.com have to fear? Making more money??  That's pretty much the definition of an escrow (mediator). Their role remains necessary. Argh... BDB doesn't allow for an unlimited number of locks? (how many your system can handle, that is)It really needs to specify a limit? Yes, my point was that we definitely cannot wait until the next halving day to kill this beast, or it will kill us instead.  It is not. It's been worked around. But we still have this bug limiting blocks to 5k transactions top, when they should be able to handle more.I don't see other way around it.hehe, dude, we'll have to abandon BDB in a few weeks. Or at least abandon this configuration which limits it to 5k transactions. We're already bumping on it. The only reason we had this fork was precisely because 5k tx per block is already not enough sometimes.
I'd still call it a bug. Actually, it's still an unsolved bug. We've only worked around it, but it's still there. A non-understood limitation of an implementation dependency does not define the protocol. To the Bitcoin protocol, blocks up until 1Mb are allowed. That was the consensus, that was what every documentation available said. The <= 0.7 Satoshi implementation wasn't capable of dealing with such blocks. That implementation was bugged, not the 0.8. Its encrypted seed, derp.I realize you can do the same with a paper wallet, as I said previously, but then I wouldn't call it "paper wallet" any more. Will you people just stop this bullshit?If you feel SatoshiDice is "abusing you" somehow (pure nonsense, but anyway), run a custom client that doesn't relay its transactions. Run a solo miner or mining pool that doesn't include them. Do whatever, but just please stop bitching. Come on, such obscure limit was not known by anyone in Bitcoin-world up until it blew yesterday. You may claim it's not a bug on BDB side*, what's arguable, but it is definitely a bug on bitcoin implementation side. Everybody should be able to handle blocks up until 1Mb. That was the general agreement, the protocol spec if you will. The particular implementation of Satoshi client <= 0.7 was not capable of following such protocol specification as it should. 0.8 onward was. If anything, 0.8 is the "correct version". Bringing everybody back to 0.7 was an "emergency plan" since pushing everybody to 0.8 was believed to be much harder to accomplish (and likely truly would be).* And bug or not, the fact that nobody here even knew about it just shows how much we cannot rely on BDB - not a single person among all the brilliant minds on the core dev team understands fully how this thing works (and neither did Satoshi) . Moving out of BDB is certainly a desirable thing. Now with this even more crippling block size limit, it's pretty much urgent. And I'd say paper wallets are less secure than Trezor, since you cannot back them up on the cloud (well, you can, but then it's not really a paper wallet any longer). This time on the what-if blog: http://what-if.xkcd.com/36/ Regardless, he does have a good point in that these miners which were on 0.8 did make a monetary sacrifice, while it wasn't them which were using a buggy software in the first place, but precisely those which were on the older version.I believe those pools which got their blocks in the 0.7 after the fork should donate perhaps half of the bitcoins they've generated up until the end of the fork to those who got orphaned for mining in 0.8 and then downgraded.It would be a noble display of gratitude, since those in 0.7 were using "bad software" and those in 0.8 agreed on downgrading just to keep the network as a whole. I view Trezor precisely as a way for non-technical people to protect their main chunk of Bitcoins, back at their homes, yes. Not as a way to move around your entire wallet and expose it to meatspace dangers frequently.To walk around with Bitcoins, smartphones are good enough. You charge it with smaller amounts that you could afford to lose in the case of a malware infection, and you're good to go. No extra device to carry, since you'll be carrying your phone with you anyway. It's not a matter of belief, it's a fact. Market prices are those determined by voluntary transactions. Taxes are coercive, not voluntary. Any alteration taxes provoke on prices is a distortion of the actual market prices. And taxing only a particular kind of good (land), provokes an unbalanced distortion.Land can certainly be capital if used as such, capital == means of production. The land of a farmer, for ex., is part of his means of production. So it's his capital.But whether it's capital or not is not my point, my point is that by taxing land only you'll create a burden on only this kind of good. There are many problems with Georgism. Both on the ethical and on the practical/economical level. I'm aware that both Hoppe and Rothbard have written about it, you should perhaps search their essays.It's a tax on consumption. That's the last link in the economic growth chain. Attacking that link will not break the chain thus will not seriously reduce future economic growth. It will reduce the amount of growth that people can profit from (consume), but the growth speed won't be be seriously reduced, at least not if we compare with taxes which affect savings and investments.The usefulness of something to society is not to be determined by you nor anybody else. You don't get to say that land is more or less useful than other goods. That's something to be decided by people's actions and their subjective evaluations.But you can certainly anticipate that it will be artificially rendered relatively less useful than other goods if you apply a tax on it. If you deleted your previous wallet.dat, and you had no backups, and you cannot recover it via recovery tools, then any money that had been deposited in any of the keys of that wallet is lost for good.You should never delete a wallet.dat which has coins in it. Unfortunately VAT on goods is almost impossible to avoid, in spite of having or not a way to spy on people's finances. Merchants have a strong incentive to declare it in order to reimburse the VAT they payed on input.And even for VAT on services, some nasty techniques may considerably reduce evasion, like forcing merchants to allow customers to provide their fiscal number to be attached to the "fiscal receipt" (what's the correct English term?), and then reimburse these customers of a % of the VAT they payed. The government of the state of São Paulo is doing this right now. You may get back as much as 30% of all the VAT (there called ICMS) that you pay. As the default VAT percentage is 18%, it means by default you can get back ~5,4% of the price of everything you buy just by adding your fiscal number to the receipt. It's not a negligible amount, so most people do give their numbers. As a consequence, the state avoids a significant amount of tax evasion and also happens to gather an immense amount of financial data about its subjects. Total Big Brother, and would work quite well even in a cryptocurrency world.Land tax creates price distortions. Why land should be rendered less useful to hold, relative to other goods? Interfering with market prices is never a good thing.(of course that every tax does such interference, but a general flat VAT affects all consumption equally, so the distortion effects are less bad) Ouch!Any idea who did this mistake? I mean, it can only be a mistake, right?Testing in prod is never good... it's particularly worse when you're testing with the equivalent of thousands of dollars.... There's no reason to worry.It's already "implemented" if you pass your traffic through Tor, a VPN, a SSH tunnel etc.The Bitcoin protocol itself should not be rendered more complex with useless (in what concern the application) cryptography. There's no need to worry about it. Packet filtering is not a serious threat. Just drop the soft limit and let miners go all the way to the hard one.Can't pool operators do that on their own? In the worst case, shouldn't that be a simple patch? What are they waiting for?Oh, it's as simple as changing some configs? So pool operators are voluntarily limiting their blocks with no particular reason? And some people seem to fear they would go the other way around.... Passing it through an encrypted channel should stop filtering.Packet filtering does little harm to P2P protocols. There's no particular reason to worry IMHO.China style IP-blocking, on the other hand, can be quite destructive, if it manages to prevent bootstrapping. I'm sorry, but I also think it is your obligation. I agree with those who say that the insurance contract was between you and the insurer, not between your client and the insurer. Unless of course you made it quite explicit to be the other way around in your  ToS. But I don't think doing so is a wise customer policy, and as somebody said above, it's likely to be considered illegal by the US gov.How come? Isn't the receiver obliged to sign a proof of receipt to retrieve his package?That's just one more reason to eat this particular loss. You can dilute it on your other earnings.How?Summary of my opinion: Coinabul should reimburse its customer, and perhaps change its insurer if the current one really refuses to do his part. Eventually even sue the insurer, if the amount makes it worthy to. Can you find your debug.log? Perhaps it says something. The rescan has nothing to do with it.Are you connected to the network? The client normally displays in the bottom right the amount of connections you have to the network. If you have none, it won't synchronize. Wise people don't oppose banks per se, they oppose the current banking system (central banks cartels, inflation etc). In a "Bitcoin world", where opening a "bank account" is as easy as opening an e-mail one, we would definitely not have the same system.If the volume of taxed money is the same, I'm not aware of any worse way to tax than via inflation directed to the credit market. Any other taxation scheme ever created is economically less destructive than inflation. Basically, even if they keep milking us just as much, the way they milk does make a significant difference. All these brutal economic cycles which destroy so much capital, for instance, would not occur if it weren't for inflation directed to credit.Plus, another quite destructive taxation type is that which attacks savings and investments, since these are the fuel for future economic growth. Income taxes attack savings and investments. Some argue that a world in which cryptocurrencies are the norm would render income taxation unpractical: http://falkvinge.net/2011/05/19/the-information-policy-case-for-flat-tax-and-basic-income/
This is interesting. I wasn't aware that Bitcoin M0 was already so higher in aggregated price than those of some governmental currencies like the ISK.Does anyone know a place with a ranking of countries per M0? It would be nice to see where Bitcoin is in such ranking. I still see some people arguing that Bitcoin is "not serious enough to be called money... it's only used by junkies, come on!". Of course they shouldn't be "disallowed", but regardless of what they represent elsewhere, these dust transactions may be a "nuisance" to Bitcoin if they are not majorly composed of fees.I don't understand why using Bitcoin for this inherently centralized use cases (like asset issuing), when there are better suited protocols like Open Transactions, for instance. The block subsidy will be determined by the free market once inflation is no longer relevant, iff the block size limit is dropped. Even Bitcoin inflation itself in a sense may one day be determined by the free market, if we start seeing investment assets quoted in Bitcoin being traded with high liquidity: such highly-liquid BTC-quoted assets would end up being used in trades, and would become a flexible monetary aggregate. Fractional reserves is not the only way to do it.Concerning the time between blocks, there have been proposals of ways to make such parameter fluctuate according to supply and demand. I think it was Meni Rosomething, IIRC, who came up once with such ideas. Although potentially feasible, that's a technical risk that might not be worthy taking. Perhaps some alternative chain will try it one day, and if it really shows itself worthwhile as a feature, people might consider it for Bitcoin, why not. I'm just not sure it's that important, 10 min seems to be fine enough. And you really think the masses care about Bitcoin non-inflationary nature? You're the minority there, my friend!A thing that people do care, though, is relative appreciation of currencies. They tend to migrate their money toward safer currencies. Just check how the Swiss Franc was going up in value before being tied to the euro. But people don't really understand monetary policy, and most that eventually accept using Bitcoin, will either be due to its appreciation, or because it's cheaper, or due to its privacy, or due to its censorship-resistance etc. The majority of people don't even know what "monetary policy" is.Please, are you claiming that letting bitcoin be useful to millions by dropping this hard limit of 7tps would create a "central authority"? First you believe in 'dumping techniques', now this? Do you realize what "central authority" actually means? Do you understand that Google, for instance, is not a central-authority of internet search and videos? And that it would be practically impossible for a single pool operator to aggregate the same "market share" in bitcoin mining than Google has in internet search and video?Where are you taking these fears from? I thought you were more versed in economics. You're sounding like people who have never heard of spontaneous order. Even in retep "successful dumping" scenario, it would still be easier to have a full node than to understand the entire complexity of bitcoin source code.But... wait, even you believe in "dumping techniques to rule out competitors"? Seriously?Are you a peer in Bitcoin development? Do you review and understand each line of the source code?No, they can't give a "rats ass", that's what I'm trying to say. Seriously, just look the amount of noise any little thing can provoke around here. The same way that would be extremely difficult to get away with silently tampering the source code, it would be extremely difficult to get away with silently tampering with the blockchain. Actually the latter would likely be more difficult (without having >50% of course). Every attempt to change anything would have to be open and public, and once again you'd have your freedom to choose without being lied to. I can't afford to read 100+ posts on this subject again, so I'll just address OP. Pardon me if I'm repeating something that has already been said.Hazek,It seems you want Bitcoin to be an absolute trust-free system to anyone, even people running lame machines which can't handle the number of transactions per second a serious payment network would generate.But... how do you even know, for sure, that the code you're running really does implement the contract you claimed to have "signed"? Is it really trust-free? Or do you trust on the fact that, being open source, somebody with the skills to validate such code will do it, and the day some contract violation is inserted in the code, it would be quickly spotted by code-review? You see how that's not "trust-free" anymore? Very few people, even among computer specialists, are really capable of digesting Bitcoin source code. It's just a tiny "elite" if you will. And that's enough for you, for me, and for everybody else, apparently.A 4000tps blockchain would be pretty much the same thing, with the difference that, considering how optimized Bitcoin is, it would be much easier to run a full validating node doing 4Ktps than it is to dig into Bitcoin source code and understand it. A much higher percentage of people will be capable of running full nodes than understanding the source. If you can trust the openness of the source code to provide enough reliability for you to use it, why can't you trust the openness of the blockchain to provide the same reliability? Actually, with some effort and expanses, you'd likely be able to finance a 4Ktps full node only for the purpose of validating the chain yourself. Or, at least, get together with like-minded people and finance a full node for that purpose.Take wikipedia for instance. It's gigantic, fully supported by its supporters donations, and some researchers claim it is more reliable than old-fashion encyclopedias. Nobody can validate its entire content. For every complex article on a particular topic, only a small minority of people in the world have the knowledge to keep it correct, and from these people, only an even smaller minority will actually do it. Yet, it's openness provide this great reliability: http://news.cnet.com/2100-1038_3-5997332.htmlThe blockchain is open, and as such, it can be validated by anyone with the means to. That's more than enough to trust it not to change to something "evil" without major repercussion. Exato.A dificuldade de se gerar um bloco se adapta. A cada 2016 blocos (~2 semanas), ela é recalculada. Se esses últimos 2016 blocos levaram em média <10min para serem gerados cada um, então a dificuldade é aumentada. E inversamente ela pode diminuir se os blocos estiverem sendo gerados mais lentamente do que um a cada 10min. AFAICT P2Pool requires each participant to be a full validating node. Maybe that changed and I'm not aware of it. But if such requirement still exists, then it cannot scale as is.Of course, P2Pool protocol per se could remain. But its participants would eventually be pool operators, and the actual miners (owners of processing power) would connect to these pool operators participating in P2Pool. It would fallback to the model of centralized pools, with the difference that they would be constrained by P2Pool protocol, what might convince some miners to support them. Or not. Can't tell that. What I can tell is that all individual miners doing full validation is not something that scales. For instance, if BFL really ships their products, I might consider buying the USB-miner thingy. But that would have to run without a full node. An automatic adjustment is definitely better than keeping the limit as is, for sure. I used to support it.Until I realized there's actually no better "automatic adjustment" than spontaneous order. Allow miners to set their own limits, together with "tolerance levels" (a way to say that if an "offending chain" is 2 or 3 or N block longer than mine already, I end up accepting it). Also allow them to define how large the block they build will be.That's what you need.I don't believe that pool operators would voluntarily decrease their revenues (by increasing the chance of losing their blocks) and increase their expanses (by paying for wider than necessary bandwidth) in the hope of kicking out lower-bandwidth pools. That's pretty much like price dumping, and price dumping doesn't work. (also, botnet operators have already kicked low-bandwidth pools out anyway... what's the percentage of bandwidth-expenses a pool must have just to be resilient against DDoS? That's likely to be more than what it takes to upload their blocks ).Which doesn't scale AFAICT. I'm sorry for cross-posting, but unfortunately I have a hard time seeing this thread as a "Technical Discussion". This is much more an economical discussion than a technical one by now. And in another thread I said what I think about it while replying to hazek: The main economical principles of Bitcoin are not being threatened. If they were, I would be among the "resistance" for sure.What happens is that there's this damn constant limit Satoshi inserted in the code because he couldn't think of something better at the moment he was coding, and now this thing is haunting us.Wanting to cripple Bitcoin scalability just because you fear that a super-cartel of pool operators would pop up without such handicapping limit? Seriously?That looks very much too me like the argument for anti-trust laws. This talk that high-bandwidth pool operators would voluntarily pad their blocks with useless data in a desperate attempt to kick out low-bandwidth pools*, risking with that to increase their propagation time and thus also increase the chance of losing their reward... to me it sounds just like the argument that price dumping works. History and economical theory show us that price dumping doesn't work. That summarizes it in economical jargon for me: the resistance against dropping the limit believes that "dumping techniques" can work, and fear that dropping the limit would be like dropping anti-trust laws. They are wrong.* By the way, for totally different reasons, it's already not really possible to be a low-badwidth pool. The reason for this is not the Bitcoin protocol per se, but DDoS attacks from bot operators mining on different pools. Unfortunately most major pools were already DDoSed. Ultimately the only defense against such kind of attach is large bandwidth. Yeah yeah right, and your block will propagate because pool operators are incapable of setting their own tolerance levels. Right. I can't avoid seeing it that way too.The main economical principles of Bitcoin are not being threatened. If they were, I would be among the "resistance" for sure.What happens is that there's this damn constant limit Satoshi inserted in the code because he couldn't think of something better at the moment he was coding, and now this thing is haunting us.Wanting to cripple Bitcoin scalability just because you fear that a super-cartel of pool operators would pop up without such handicapping limit? Seriously?That looks very much too me like the argument for anti-trust laws. This talk that high-bandwidth pool operators would voluntarily pad their blocks with useless data in a desperate attempt to kick out low-bandwidth pools*, risking with that to increase their propagation time and thus also increase the chance of losing their reward... to me it sounds just like the argument that price dumping works. History and economical theory show us that price dumping doesn't work. That summarizes it in economical jargon for me: the resistance against dropping the limit believes that "dumping techniques" can work, and fear that dropping the limit would be like dropping anti-trust laws. They are wrong.* By the way, for totally different reasons, it's already not really possible to be a low-badwidth pool. The reason for this is not the Bitcoin protocol per se, but DDoS attacks from bot operators mining on different pools. Unfortunately most major pools were already DDoSed. Ultimately the only defense against such kind of attach is large bandwidth. Esse termo "mineração" é fonte de confusão. O que "mineradores" fazem é incluir transações nesse banco de dados distribuído chamado blockchain. Essa tarefa é custosa, então eles recebem uma recompensa monetária. Essa recompensa é composta de "bitcoin novas" (inflação, dinheiro previamente não existente) e "taxas de transação", gorjetas voluntariamente adicionadas às transações por quem as enviou.Eles não "mineram" nada no final das contas. I'd say "bumping all the time" is what should be avoided. Ideally the change should be done before that start happening. Seeing how Bitcoin grows, it wouldn't surprise me if we start bumping on this 1Mb limit yet this year. You can't predict how much the monetary base will be worth nor how much security is enough. You can't set prices like that.That's what I'm saying, you can't know what's enough or more than enough, so you can't simply set a mandatory amount per Mb.You seem to be contradicting yourself in the same post... They could eventually support both chains.But yeah, it would likely be easier for services to simply choose one. No modification on their side other than updating their bitcoind install. As a protocol rule?I find that worse than an automatic adjustment of the max block size. You can't set prices like that. You can't predict what 50BTC will represent in the future. Disaster or not, the more I read these discussions, the more I see an actual fork (as in different chains) as inevitable.Some people seem determined to keep this handicapping 1Mb limit, and envision Bitcoin as nothing more than a SWIFT 2.0. Some people, me included, want Bitcoin to be much more than that eventually, what would require more than 7tps.At a certain point, a fork will happen. Everybody who had coins before the fork, will have the same amount of coins on both chains, the old and the new one. People like me will sell part of their old coins in exchange for coins in the new chain (the one without the limit). Some other people will do the other way around. Lots of price turbulence will happen. I can't predict how major services will behave. Would MtGox support trading of both Bitcoins, old and new? Or would they pick one?Eventually, one of the two chains may die. Or not.I knew from the day I learned about this block size limit that it would be a problem in the future: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1865.0(OBS: I changed my mind about the "automatic adjustment" thing, I don't think it should be done that way anymore) Only miners (and by that I mean solo miners + pool operators, not pooled miners) need to be a full node. They're your "everyone" there.Please people, understand one thing: you can't run a full payment network used by millions as a hobby. The day Bitcoin becomes something really serious (i.e., thousands of transactions per second), being a full node will necessarily be a professional task. It won't be something you can do on your laptop, "just for fun".EDIT: And, as Mike said, the idea of converting Bitcoin into some replacement to SWIFT with $20 fees for transactions, which would force people to use bank-like institutions for daily transfers, just because you want "ordinary people to verify transactions", totally turns me off. Bitcoin can be much more than that. If you actually want it to remain this censorship-resistant currency that it is, it has to remain suitable for small transactions like buying some plugin from Wordpress. If you want Bitcoin to remain an alternative for those seeking financial privacy, you have to keep it suitable for SR users and alike - otherwise all these "bank-like" payment processor would ruin your privacy. If you want Bitcoin to remain an alternative for those trying to protect their purchasing power from inflation, you have to keep it suitable for those who want to protect their daily money on their own, without having to use a bank just for storage purposes which would recreate the incentive for fractional reserves. The list can go on. Bitcoin has the potential to be much more than SWIFT 2.0. But for that, processing transactions will have to become a professional activity (it kinda already is actually).Succeed in what? Killing everybody else? Do you realize that would likely require more than 50% of the network processing power, otherwise the "unacceptably-gigantic" block would always be an orphan? Miners would likely reject blocks way too large, specially if it's filled with transactions never seen before (i.e., a likely attempt of flooding).I'm glad you see it's not so black-and-white. I'm sad though that you think you can actually "choose what point between there is acceptable". Such point cannot be found arbitrarily, even because it is not fixed: it varies all the time according to different demands for security, transaction space, speed etc, and different supply of resources. Basically, you'll never be able to even list all data that is necessary to take such decision, as it involves subjective opinions of thousands and eventually millions. Let alone calculate anything. Only if you want to totally avoid the fork actually. Otherwise, you may have both chains living in parallel for some time. Then eventually one might "beat" the other, as people migrate. Or both keep alive "forever", that's a possibility too.The more I see these discussions, the less I believe in totally avoiding the fork.EDIT: And also, as a general comment on the discussion, you people fearing "too much centralization", as in "too few market participants", should realize that, at most, what would happen would be a few pool operators, like we have now. Pool operators do not own the processing  power. Such processing power will remain scattered among thousands of people, who may easily migrate to different pools if they feel like. Pretty much like what already happens. Current pools need to have some "professional bandwidth" if only for protecting against DDoS, It already require professional resources to run a mining pool.
Great posts from Mike and Gavin in this thread. There's indeed no reason to panic over "too much centralization". Actually, setting an arbitrary limit (or an arbitrary formula to set the limit) is the very definition of "central planning", while letting it get spontaneously set is the very definition of "decentralized order".Also, having fewer participants in a market because these participants are good enough to keep aspiring competitors at bay is not a bad thing. The problem arises when barriers of entry are artificial (legal, bureaucratic etc), not when they're part of the business itself. Barriers of entry as part of the business means that the current market's participants are so advanced that everybody else wanting to enter will have to get at least as good as the current participants for a start.That's cool. Please core devs, consider studying what other hard fork changes would be interesting to put in, because we risk hitting the 1Mb limit quite soon. Come on, don't be ridiculous. I've drunk raw milk all my childhood and I never had "food poisoning". You just boil it before drinking and you're good to go. You should also consider that it spoils much faster, like bread (when I was a child, we used to buy bread and milk at the same time at the bakery, for the day). I've actually drunk milk that had just left the cow directly to my glass a couple times and didn't have any issues either.Impressive.You know what I just found out? If you buy 10 lottery tickets, you're 10x more likely to win the prize!!    I have this feeling too. But then again, there's no such a thing as a free lunch, so how are these 50GB going to be payed for? I suppose that, as for everything else "for free" on the web, it's going to be payed via advertising. But then again, if his advertisers use traditional payment vehicles, what's to stop the financial blockade?If only Mega was large enough to convince some major web advertisers to start dealing in Bitcoin....  I believe these companies should start looking into what it takes to handle their clients pay rolls (is that the English term for the process of paying your employees?).Like, allowing employees to choose to receive, say, 10% of their salaries in Bitcoin. Then automatically tunneling part of the Bitcoin revenue the company has into Bitcoin salaries for their employees, making less exchanges against fiat and thus saving on fees for its client.Also, these Bitcoin-specialized companies could handle the legal challenges, if any, that paying salaries in Bitcoin would represent.I think that would speed up Bitcoin usage quite a bit. I agree, but I also agree with hazek in the sense that it's not cool to turn off new comers. So, maybe we should not direct them immediately to bitcoin-qt on bitcoin.org... maybe we should make sure they see a list of available clients before downloading any? I don't know Erik personally, but from his posts/writings, I don't believe he'd ever use the state to enforce a monopoly to his benefit. Don't the receivers of an unconfirmed transaction also try to keep it alive by rebroadcasting?Considering these transactions have ~600 outputs, it's likely that some of its receivers did get it. I thought this behavior had already been implemented in bitcoind. I might be wrong though, can't find it on github. Well, AFAIK it has two buttons, a low-resolution monochromatic screen, and probably a processor weaker than that of any smartphone. Smartphones have wifi, 3G support, GPS, colored touchscreen with higher resolution, powerful battery etc. There's also the Raspberry Pi: a much more powerful hardware for one quarter of that amount. (OK, I do realize the Raspberry Pi is exceptional in terms of cost/benefits, so this comparison might not be the fairest)I also understand this won't be produced industrially in China, so we can expect a higher price. But 100 just seem too much, that's all. Apparently it did.  As I said to OP, you may attempt to send the "locked money" to yourself, and pay a large transaction fee in the process. Theoretically the whole unconfirmed chain should be analyzed together by miners. (the fee would be used to pay for all of them).I suppose something like 0,1 BTC as fee is already quite large.But if you're not in a hurry, just wait. Ouch, that seems a little expensive. I mean, can't you buy old smartphones with that amount? Or perhaps second-hand netbooks that you could format and turn into an offline wallet. Do you control any of the outputs?I think that if you initiate a transaction from any of the outputs, and put a juicy fee on it, miners will combine the two when analyzing its fee/priority ratio. That might speed things up. These are two unrelated things. Bloom filter is pretty much what you describe: a protocol for full nodes to serve lightweight nodes only the transactions that concern them, plus some false positives for privacy reasons.The index pruning changed the main transaction index in bitcoind, now it only stores unspent transactions, what makes it much smaller, and thus synchronizing with the network now requires much less I/O. Keep in mind this is just the index, the full blockchain content is still stored. They only have 1 input though. I thought many inputs was the biggest problem in what concerns verification time.Actually, if this transaction was paying 0,011 in fees, wouldn't it be better to include it instead of 22 tx of 1kb paying 0,0005 each, in what concerns propagation time? Since the latter would have at least 22 different inputs to be validated.EDIT: Dumb me, outputs have to be inserted in the transaction index, and that's likely to take more time than validating inputs. Ignore what I said above. But... doesn't that mean that people were treating a time-locked transaction as normal unconfirmed transaction? They should not be treated as the same thing, that's the actual problem. That was not exactly my question (I meant time-locked tx after their time locking expires) but never mind, I got an answer in the other thread. Thanks, What does "disabled" means?Does it means that bitcoind gives you no way to deal with nLockTime, but if some miner accepts, relays and mines them, his blocks will be accepted? That's what I feared. You're seriously killing nLockTime for good?Such feature can be really useful. Think inheritance for instance. How would you implement inheritance in a "bank" which uses multi-signature? You die, all your money dies with you?Even for password regeneration... suppose you run a multisig bank in BTC, and you don't really trust all your clients to never forget their passwords (people do often forget/lose their passwords, and I bet that in some jurisdictions you would be forced to give your client a way to retrieve their money even if he forgot his password). Using nLockTime would be just great for this. You periodically transfer the money to a cold storage address the bank fully controls. While the client is logging in, you periodically reverse that transaction and generates a new one. If your client ever forgets his password for good, you'd just need to positively identify him (docs etc) and ask him to wait like 3 months or something to have his coins back.Anyways. This is a powerful feature. The fact that's not yet exploited doesn't mean otherwise: multisig itself is not really exploited so far, and I don't think you'd say that feature is "not important enough". Thank you all for this development. This version is a major one for scalability, with bloom filters and the pruned index.Could somebody point me to some clarification on what exactly does this means?Because, AFAIK, time locked transactions should be reversible, up until the block they are supposed to be included. That's the whole point of time locking, isn't it? Actually, if the money supply is constant, the average salary would decrease only if the workforce increases. Giving the world's demographic trend, it wouldn't be impossible for the opposite to start happening in many places a few decades from now.
I understand, I just think that's not such a serious issue to motivate a change in the 10 min interval too. Instead, if relaying orphans becomes a normal practice, nodes would be able to see whether there's another branch in which their transactions don't exist. If your transaction is currently in all branches being mined, you're certain that you got your confirmation.So, to counter the problem you raise, I think that relaying orphans is good enough. Why wouldn't it be?There would be some variety, surely. In the blocks they produce themselves, miners will search to optimize the ratio (time to propagate / revenue in fees), while in blocks they receive from other miners, they would rather it be the smaller possible. These parameters are not the same for different miners, particularly the "time to propagate" one, as it strongly depends on how many connections you can keep established and on your bandwidth/network lag.Plus, if there is an "global optimal max size", it's quite pretentious to claim you can come up with the "optimal formula" to calculate it. Even if you could, individual peers would never have all necessary data to feed to this formula, as it would have to take into consideration the hardware resources of all miners and the network as a whole. That's impracticable. Such maximum size must be established via a decentralized/spontaneous order. It's pretty much like economical central planning versus free markets actually. Would it really? I've never seen any actual analysis, but I'd say that honest splits would mostly carry the same transactions, with the obvious exception of coinbase and "a few others". Has anyone ever done an analysis of how many transactions (in relative terms) are actually lost in a reorg and need to get reconfirmed?Btw, interested nodes could attempt to download, and perhaps even relay, all sides of a split. If you see that your transaction is in all of them, you know it actually had its first confirmation for good. Relaying orphans sounds a less radical change than changing the 10m delay... That's nice. Just don't forget to include total download time in the "time to verify", as well as any other I/O time. Bandwidth will be a significant bottleneck once blocks start getting larger.EDIT: Oh, and of course, there must be tolerance levels too (if I'm X blocks behind the chain I once rejected, I'll give up and start building on top of it). You don't want to create that many chain forks!  That's probably because you always sign with the same certificate. The company I work for has to sign in the name of other people actually, so, after authentication, they generate a "minute-certificate", used only to sign the document (it expires quickly). That certificate carries the name of the client. And to generate that certificate, you gotta pay 15 cents of euro IIRC.As there's nothing inherently wrong with charging a 4% fee for conducting a payment either. Yet, here are we trying to make something better.  So, you're claiming that what's written in OP is not correct?Because according to OP, he said he'd be "seeking legal advice", what's not a threat of litigation. And, also according to OP, that only happened 5 days after the ticket being opened, not "immediately". he, the "lead developer" is on the same side I am, nice. How difficult would it be to implement it on bitcoind right now, without touching the 1Mb hard limit?I mean the multiple limits and tolerance levels idea.Miners using bitcoind would be able to set in config file a list of value pairs. One value would be a size limit, the other the amount of blocks longer a chain breaking that limit would have to be in order to you to accept building on top of it. Do you see what I'm saying?That could be done right now on bitcoind, with the sole condition that anything above 1Mb will be rejected no matter what. Well, it works, yes... but it is expensive! I work for a company that among other things has a system that does digital signatures for official documents. They are required to pay 015 for each signature they issue, not to mention the enormous costs for being able to issue these signatures in the first place. And that's paying exclusively for Adobe's "recognition". Adobe does't actually do anything, they have absolutely no extra cost when these signatures are issued. But if you want their recognition, open your pockets!I hope that this implementation for bitcoin is done in such a way that more competition in the "authority market" is available, so that prices are not so high. So... why did you ban him? Did he try to steal from you or something? Or that's just how you deal with customer's complaints? The security level may be the same of SSL, but there should be a way for a device like Trezor to safely attribute an address to a humanly recognizable name. Otherwise all its security will be gone the day that some hacker manages to code a trojan capable of tricking Trezor and the user's browser at the same time, displaying at both interfaces an address that belongs to the attacker.I'd  very much like it to be extensible to arbitrary addresses because I think multisig is quite important. I'm not saying this clever thing with ECDSA multipliers shouldn't be done, on the contrary, it's quite cool actually, but it doesn't cover all possible cases. That sounds complicate. The client application would need to know how the script is supposed to be built. And the server won't necessarily own all keys in a multisig...I think you should consider making your system capable of signing arbitrary addresses too. Even if for that case it means having an online signing key. I realize that an online signing key can be compromised if the server itself is compromised, but well, it's harder than compromising users' machines and putting the MiM there.We should encourage the use of multisig and eventually other advanced features provided by scripting. That's quite clever!But how would it work for addresses that represent a script? Hashing power being cheap is not relevant to the security of the network since it would be equally cheap to an attacker. It's the total amount of resources employed by honest miners relative to those of an eventual attacker that actually matter. If your words are true, this deserves more attention.I'd suggest you trying to get whitelisted and then post in a board more closely watched by mods, like the Scam Accusation one. Something more than your words will be requested as proof though. This has been discussed for a while.I used to support the idea of an algorithm to recalculate the limit, as it's done for the difficulty. But currently I just think miners should be able to create their own limits together with multiple "tolerance levels", like  "I won't accept chains containing blocks larger than X unless it's already N blocks deeper than mine". Each miner should set their own limits. That would push towards a consensus. Miners with limits too different than the average would end up losing work. The point is that like this the consensus is achieved through "spontaneous order" (decentralized), and not via a top-down decision.That said, I do have the feeling that this change will only be scheduled once we start hitting the limit. Si je me rappelle bien bitmarket.eu fonctionne comme bitcoinary. Il ne garde pas l'argent des clients, tout ce qu'il fait c'est mettre en contact les gens qui veulent échanger. Voilà pourquoi ils peuvent se permettre d'être gratuits. 5k tps is quite high. According to this page, Visa itself process 2k tps.Plus, bitcoins can be traded without the blockchain. You may think of the blockchain as a "clearing house".Nobody can predict how much transaction fees will be paying in the future. We can assume it will be lower than CCs.Miners are free not to include a transaction in the block they mine. The transaction fee is a kind of tip to the miner that includes your transaction. It doesn't make sense adding a "surcharge". It makes sense decreasing the prices of items bought with cash. Plus, if merchants are really free to set the discount as much as they want, I'd say that many would also include this sale tax percentage as a discount for cash purchases.   Cada um tem sua maneira de memorizar senhas, mas em geral acho mais fácil memorizar frases do que combinações como essa acima.Na linha do correct horse battery sttaple Calma lá. Força bruta sobre uma chave pública, um endereço bitcoin, ou qualquer coisa com uma alta entropia, de fato é fora de questão, e não é de hoje. Mas senhas não necessariamente têm alta entropia. E se eu tenho em mãos um arquivo criptografado com senha, vou poder fazer um ataque de força bruta na velocidade máxima que minha máquina aguentar. Algo como a senha Tr0ub4dor&3 do exemplo acima não levaria muito tempo pra quebrar, por exemplo. It's significantly smaller because it only stores the block headers, which are tiny. Currently it downloads the entire blocks (but downloading isn't the hardest part, storing them in an indexed database is). As soon as bloom filters are implemented, bitcoinj will be capable of only downloading the transactions that concerns the client. Err... by making it irrelevant, since corrupts can't control you through force any longer?Or, putting it another way, by internalizing corruption costs. Organizations that allow corruption and those voluntarily related to them will be the ones paying the costs of such corruption. Those unrelated to the such organizations are not touched by it.In a monopoly like we live now, you cannot choose to cut your relations with the monopolist.Btw, I'd argue that corruption is far from being the greatest issue we face. Actually, quite frequently, corruption is what saves people. In many situations, the ruthless application of the law would bring much worse consequences. For example, being able to bribe a corrupt cop in order not to go to jail for a joint is definitely better than actually having the law respected. I wonder how many business would have already been shut down if it weren't for corrupt public servants... Brazil for example would have no brothels if it weren't for corrupt cops!
The advantage is the p2p context. You don't depend on a server that could be compromised, it's harder to spy on you etc. Ah ok, I was not aware of that. Thanks for the clarification.So, wait... that means Electrum clients also download the block headers, like BitcoinJ...What's the difference between Electrum and a BitcoinJ (SPV) client configured to connect to a single server? I suppose Electrum tells its server the entire lists of address the client possess, so that the server only transmit relevant transactions together with the relevant chunks of the merkle tree, is that it?Would you consider making it possible for Electrum to behave like an actual SPV client (with p2p bootstrap) once Bloom filters are implemented on bitcoind? Meaning, those who want to keep relying on a single server stay as they are, and those that prefer p2p go SPV... Good points.I've been using Wuala for a while now, it hasn't disappointed me so far. And they accept bitcoins. ;-) The Housing Bubble in 4 Easy Steps I'd say Electrum is as secure as bitcoin-qt in what concerns the risk of being stolen. And Electrum is actually safer in what concerns backups due to its deterministic wallets - you only have to back it up once.The greatest problem with Electrum, IMHO, is the fact you depend on a server, who could theoretically spy on you (log all your transactions) and could eventually be compromised and then start lying to you (not telling about money you receive, not sending your transactions out, telling you received money you actually didn't etc - the server cannot steal the money you already have, though).To avoid these server-related issues and still be lightweight, you can use an SPV client like Multibit. They don't have deterministic wallets AFAIK though, so you'd have to back it up frequently, preferably have it as a link to a file in an encrypted cloud storage like Wualla or the new Mega (does Mega create a folder on your system you can point symbolic links to? I've never tested it). Well, I at least wouldn't want to have on my shoulders the responsibility of having to protect such an import key - nor the price tag on my head that would eventually come with it.At the end it's up to slush and stick to choose what they prefer: the risk of a recall or the risk of losing / being forced to give up the signing key.Perhaps the beta version could be modifiable, and once they're sure it's stable enough, they stop selling it and switch to a non-modifiable one. And perhaps once they become a multi-million dollars corporation with branches all over the world, they can afford to use multiple keys kept by different people on different continents, making an attack practically unfeasible.    What if there's a bug in the software that manages the breaks of your car? (many newer cars have electronic breaks, remember that Toyota scandal?)Even if it was possible to update the firmware of such software, most people wouldn't be capable of. A recall would be necessary.I'd expect the same for Trezor. If a critical bug is found, they should do a recall. So, yeah, they'd better test it a lot, and keep it simple. I was expecting it to be this way. It's like a hardware, if you want an upgrade, buy a new one. It can't be more secure than that.Although that's already more secured than any solution we currently have available, you'd have the risk of someone silently stealing the signing key and using it to infect some devices. Once you discover you'd need to make a callback of the product, what's already awful. And until then the hacker may be able to steal quite some money.I know that security experts like slush and his partner probably know how to secure a signing key very well, but why running the risk? This device is supposed to be so cheap that buying a new one every year or so would be perfectly feasible. Plus, once tens of thousands of bitcoins are being secured by Trezor wallets, and thus by its firmware signing key, attacking those who control such signing key in meatspace becomes quite profitable... Yes, AFAIK there's a difficulty that when hit will trigger a share submission. This difficulty can be as low as 1 and then increase gradually if the pool verifies that a particular miner is sending shares too frequently. "Printing" DNA is simply awesome and revolutionary. Data storage is just a minor detail such technology may revolutionize.Anything can be converted to a private key. I just don't think you'd really like to use your DNA for that though...  It's not binary like that, "valid" or "invalid".The difficulty is a target. You can have a share far away or quite close from that target, without necessarily hitting it. It's by measuring how close you get that the pool has an idea of how much processing power you're dedicating. Just a tip: you should try to improve the search function.I noticed you had these slightly cheaper than in Amazon. So I wondered whether you also had a low-cost version of it.I typed "case sony prs-t2 light navitech". Almost 3k results were returned. Obviously, most of them were not really related. The official cover for Sony was among the first results though, so I suppose the low-cost cases just aren't available, otherwise they'd be among the first results... am I right? (I confess I didn't browse through the 3k results)Anyways, thank you for this great site. It's awesome to see lower-than-amazon prices, and realize they can only be thanks to Bitcoin (and, of course, the great hard work of the people behind BitcoinStore). I was actually expecting this to happen.As it didn't I've done it myself by quoting posts here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=138169I'll delete my off-topic posts of this thread. It'd be nice if other posters quoted on that thread would do the same with theirs. The Trezor thread got slightly derailed, and as I contributed myself with a couple of off-topic posts, I thought it would be better to take them from that thread and create a new one. Actually I was expecting a mod to do it, but since none took the initiative, I'm doing it myself. The inconvenience is that I can only quote posts, not move them, so the formatting won't be the best (ctrl+ is your friend ).These are the off-topic posts so far. I'll delete those of mine from the Trezor thread. It would be nice if the authors of the other posts quoted here do the same. Not exactly, it's more like a certificate-like protocol, similar to SSL, something that would allow strong authentication of addresses. This is an essential infrastructure brick if you want to have a decent level of security. If you don't understand why, please learn about it before opening your loud mouth. Even if one figures out a safe way to implement such insurance, aren't there more efficient ways to protect your coins? Insurance is never for free!For example, suppose you have a multisig scheme with a "bank". You configure your account not to let you withdraw more than a certain limit per day. Trying to change this config to anything larger would generate notification alerts and would only be valid, say, 48h after.Under this config, all that an eventual thief could steal from you is your maximum daily amount, which shouldn't be much larger than an insurance's deductible anyway.Add to this a hardware wallet as the sole means of accessing your keys, and the thief would only be able to steal from you by physically stealing the hardware wallet and by forcing you to give him its encryption password.The only way you could potentially "lose everything" is if the thief actually holds you hostage for the time necessary to change your configuration and transfer all the money out of your account. Perhaps to counter this, you could list a number of trusted people who would be authorized to freeze your account in case you "disappear". Or make just this particular risk (kidnapping) insurable - don't they exist already, insurances against kidnappings? In that case maybe you shouldn't use the 21M BTC limit any longer, since the total "bitcoin" supply could be higher due to fiduciary inflation.I think it's more reasonable to compare the 21M limit with the monetary base, since that's what it represents. I'm quoting this just because, apparently, it can't be repeated enough. Thanks D&T. By the way, correct me in what I'm wrong. What I know about quantum computers is that they're capable of executing operations which normal computers simply cannot execute. With these different kind of operations, it is possible to execute a particular algorithm that exploits a ""flaw"" in some public-key encryption algorithms like ECDSA or RSA and then crack a private key out of its public pair with considerably less operations than a brute force would request.I have no idea how fast this algorithm can crack a a key, but I believe we have no reasons to worry right now. Quantum-proof public-key algorithms are not as much tested as ECDSA AFAIK, so it might not be a good idea to start using them right away. Hell, RSA is used all over and people are not worrying with this. We can stay cool for many years yet, I suppose.Finally, hash functions are not quantum-vulnerable. So as long as you use disposable addresses (i.e., never reuse an address), you're safe even against quantum computers. http://www.businessweek.com/news/2013-01-16/russia-says-world-is-nearing-currency-war-as-europe-joinsThe amount of economic ignorance is impressive.Guess we should be happy - if such "war" really intensifies, more people might give Bitcoin a chance. If anything, we'll at least manage to retain part of our purchasing power simply by having less fiat. Although you may say Litecoin is a fork of the Bitcoin software, it is not a fork of Bitcoin's blockchain. AFAIK, Litecoin has its own chain, with its own genesis.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fork_(software_development)It would be the equivalent of creating a new cryptocurrency, whose chain is identical to Bitcoin's blockchain up to a certain point (the fork point). From that point on, they're different currencies.This would happen if the new cryptocurrency has rules which make it incompatible with Bitcoin. For ex, when the block reward halvened, some people had the intention to fork bitcoin and create a cryptocurrency that would always give 50 BTC of inflation per new block. AFAIK they've abandoned the idea. Anuncie em sites tipo esse: https://www.bitmit.net/ pra ter mais visibilidade.Fotos são sempre úteis também pra vender um imóvel. This is a scam, but just so it's known, women in authoritarian regimes which forbid abortion can always order abortion meds from the Women on Web: https://www.womenonweb.org/This a Dutch organization, I believe it's the same which once had a boat that would go around the shores of such nations, pick women wanting an abortion and make the procedure on international waters.Btw... they should accept bitcoins, since what they do requires privacy... Yes, they are. The corresponding private key will never be found, as that would be the equivalent of brute forcing it.Unless, of course, some critical flaw is found in the algorithms used by BTC that would allow for a private key to be found without having to brute force it. That's not something you should be afraid of. Come on, it's safer than that. To pull off a double-spend, you need some technical expertise, and perhaps the help of a miner. While Mr Everybody can easily break a promise, I wouldn't say he can make a double-spend.But yeah, you're right that if you have no way to go after your customer or interrupt the service, you probably shouldn't be accepting unconfirmed transactions.Software can/should be clever enough to detect such a thing. IIRC, bitcoind has soft (bitcoind's) and hard (Bitcoin protocol) limits for that. Meaning that it will not spend nor build a block spending coinbase less than 120 blocks old, but it will accept a block which spends it a bit earlier (100 blocks I believe, not sure). Seriously?Sending money to a company whose sole purpose is to sell Bitcoins is already "proof beyond reasonable doubts" that you're buying bitcoins. Come on. I haven't read the entire topic yet, but are you seriously implying that his service has any amount of guilt in this? That OP has something to "solve"?People should simply learn not to send money to unknown types on the internet without escrow. Either you verify the other party reputation or you use a reputable third party, specially for meaningful amounts.Financial privacy should not be thrown away simply because some are irresponsible with their money.That said, I don't doubt at all that he might be required by law not to respect people's privacy, as you say. If that's the case he doesn't have much choice anyway.They're already sending money to BitcoinNordic account anyway. Unless you're talking about owners of joint accounts who don't want the other owner to know where the money is going to (fishy), for everything else that matters it's already "written" in their statement what they used that money for. Yes, and for the second question: http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/EXCRESNSMostly because banks are holding most of the extra money as excess reserves. Also, prices are not such a direct/immediate linear function of money supply, although they're strongly related. hahaha, Krugman makes fun of himself alone, we don't need to say anything. I don't know which is worse, this or the alien invasion to boost the economy thing.The sad part is seeing people still taking this moron seriously.As a matter of fact, that's kind of how it works out:  https://mises.org/daily/4029 Taxis != public transportation.I'd say that the majority of people who get a taxi do have a vehicle, they just do not have access to them in that moment (or do not want to, like when they're drunk etc). Nice, so GetBlockTemplate gives the worker some decision power over the block contents, allowing him to change some details every time the nonce overflows. And as a bonus, it allows workers to be sure they're not working on something "evil" or against their interests. A decision-power decentralization in centralized pooled mining. Neat solution.Thanks kjj. Well, you must admit that they have a little bias: they can all read C++ fluently. Such a documentation would be useful precisely for those who can't. But Armory guy makes a good point:Maybe simply not calling it "specification" would be enough to avoid most problems raised here. Juste par curiosité, as-tu choisi vraiment le client lourd (qui fait cette synchronisation), ou simplement tu ne savais pas qu'il y a des alternatives qui n'ont pas besoin de passer par là?J'ai limpression que beaucoup de monde télécharge bitcoin-qt sans se rendre compte des alternatives, car elles ne sont pas très explicites sur bitcoin.org.  This.If you really want such specification, DIY or offer a bounty to someone else. I understand that. My doubt concerned classic transactions (what existed before P2SH), in which - I thought - the script was defined by the sender.Apparently, according to Pieter Wuille, it was always the recipient that specified the script via the receiving address. So I'm imagining the only change brought by P2SH was to hash the script portion in the address, making it constant-sized, is that the case?EDIT: I don't see where the script enters in the steps described here though... It only comments this So I suppose there are different algorithms for the production (and parsing) of an address, the one described on that page only concerns "classic addresses". Thank you,But, if that's the case, what was the point of that pay-to-script-hash development? If the address always contained the script, since the beginning of Bitcoin times, what did that development add?Was it because the script was not hashed in the address, so the longer it was, the longer the address would be? The whole point was to have constant-sized addresses? Ok, I just read about the extraNonce field on the wiki. That's what's changed when the nonce overflows.Do workers have their hands on this extraNonce?EDIT:Just found this:Allowing the worker to manipulate the timestamp might help, but if the timestamp is in seconds, I'm afraid that might not be enough. According to this page, BFL claims its MiniRig will be capable of calculating 1,5*1012 h/s. Rounding 1000 to 1024 (210), that would make something close to 1,5*240 h/s. It would overflow the nonce 256 times per second! (if I haven't made any mistakes on these powers there)It's true that if the worker can change the timestamp every second, it only needs to request the amount of work it's capable of processing in one full second. For the next second, it can change the timestamp and repeat everything again...Or is the timestamp in milliseconds?Anyway, how will (have?) people solve(d) this? Please correct me on what I"m wrong.AFAICT, a mining pool assembles a block, generate its header, and give the header to its workers. The workers will try to calculate a hash for that header that beats the current share difficulty by changing the value of the nonce. Whenever the nonce is exhausted, they attempt a different block. Pools may change the block header as much as they like simply by generating a new address for coinbase, they don't depend on waiting for new transactions nor rearranging them.The nonce is only 32 bits long. We can assume that ASIC devices will be able to calculate 232 hashes very quickly.Wouldn't that mean too much upload bandwith will be required from pools? Not to mention the capacity to generate lots of different headers quite fast.I confess I'm quite ignorant on mining since I don't mine myself, so it's quite possible that this problem is already solved, and I'm not aware about it.For example, do pools allow their workers to change the header themselves, by rearranging part of the transactions for example? That would increase the size of individual messages sent because at least some transactions plus Merkle branches would need to be sent back and forth, but it could certainly decrease the frequency that the worker needs to get new work from the pool. It could decrease the required bandwidth after all... I was discussing Bitcoin with some geek colleagues today during lunch, and one made a question to which I'd like to verify the answer.He asked what would happen if somebody send some coins to an address A which I control, but the script to spend this output cannot be executed by me, so I can't actually spend that money (he was trying to imagine a scam in which you claim to have made a payment, the receiver verifies the payment, but then with the use of script you send the money back to yourself).I answered that what would probably happen is that bitcoind (and I hope every other client) would not consider that the money is in your wallet. If you're not capable of spending it, it's not yours, even if your address is in the outputs of the tx.That's correct... right?Can I assume that every time that my client does not immediately recognizes the script that was attached to the output, it considers that the money is not mine, even if the script in question actually allows me to spend that money? (imagine it's a any-of-2 multisig, for instance)?Thanks.
lolStill, it's not by trying to prevent your customers from knowing your competitors that you'll keep them as customers. Actually, "desperate marketing" like this tends to backfire... it's like people that come to your home to sell you stuff. First thing I think to myself: if your product is really that good, why do you need to knock my door to try to convince me of it? Why isn't your product available at the Carrefour nearby?Anyways, I'm among those who think you should consider publishing a directory - with the consent of your clients, of course, do not publicly list someone who doesn't want to be listed. Every country in the world has less guns per capita than the US. Of the countries in this list, if I'm not mistaken, 97 have a lower homicide rate, while 108 have a higher homicide rate than the US.What was your point again?Let's just stop comparing different places in what concerns violence, shall we? Otherwise I could just compare New Hampshire with Washington DC, for example. A less error prone approach would be comparing the same region before/after laws that made it harder/easier for honest people to acquire guns. And even that approach is not perfect as there are too many other variables that may influence it.As long as you're not doing any harm to others, owning tings is a right, be it guns, drugs or whatever. Stop being a control freak and let people live their lives in peace. It doesn't need to be that complex... the virus could just send the encrypted file to the attacker, patiently waits for the user to start his client and from this point on log everything the user types and send it to the attacker. The attacker could manually look for the password, it shouldn't be that hard I guess.But anyway, yes, it adds complexity. Companies are just "shared property", nothing more.You may have a contract with a company, the same way you may rent a house that belongs to a married couple. Saying you have a contract with such shared properties is the equivalent of saying you have a contract with each of the owners of the said share property, proportionally.I don't see how it could be any different, ethically speaking. And btw, there's only one reality.  Let me try to make it clearer:- Nethead took Roger property.- Roger had a previous contract with Nethead via blockchain.info, in which Nethead had provided data which Roger was supposed to keep private.- Roger used the data he had on Nethead due to this other contract in private to demonstrate to Nethead how he know he had Roger's money and his excuse was a lie. I highly doubt that this would be a violation of the contract mentioned above since the data was not made public by Roger.- Roger's actions might have represented a breach of the contract he had with the other owners of Blockchain.info. But that's a problem between them, irrelevant to Nethead. It's almost as if you didn't read the first phrase of mine you quoted.Blockchain.info and BitcoinStore are just abstractions. They don't actually have any rights, they don't exist ethically. Only individuals have rights, and when under contract, obligations. Contracts may allow the creation of these abstractions, but in the end, there are always individuals behind them.There were two individuals in this dispute: Nethead and Roger. It's their actions that count.Roger owns part of Bitcoinchain.info AFAIK, he's not some random dude that asked for data and got it.As an owner of Blockchain.info, he's probably bound by this privacy policy. I'm not sure if he did really broke it, as he didn't release blockchain.info data publicly, but that's irrelevant as I explained before - if he did broke the contract he had with Neathead as owner of Blockchain.info, such breach of contract is eclipsed by the fact that Nethead took part of Roger's property.Now, if Roger also broke a contract he had with the other owners of Blockchain.info by gathering this data the way he did, that's another matter between them, irrelevant in what concerns Nethead.They're much less wrong than Nethead's actions and therefore are forgivable.His relations with the other owners of blockchain.info and his privileges in their application is a totally separate matter.When I say "crime" I mean any violation of an individuals right, be it a slap in the face or murder - contract breaching is within.These distinctions you mention are just administrative distinctions, separating different courts to rule over different issues.Perhaps the word "crime" in English is not appropriate to describe every violation of somebody's rights. In my language it is fine enough. In French I know that it's not - the word crime is restricted to some serious offenses. Anyway, if that's the case, it's just semantics. Find an English word good enough to describe any violation of somebody's right and replace it whenever I said crime or criminal before. You're talking about abstractions, while what matters are the actions of actual individuals.I'm not arguing you should have such power no matter what.I'm arguing that, if you happen to have - for example, because you happen to be an admin there - and you break your contract against me because you believe I'm violating your rights, then a few outcomes are possible after a "proper trial':I'm proved guilty of violating your rights. I took more from you than you took from me. Conclusion: I still owe you.I'm proved guilty of violating your rights, but it's decided that you ended up taking more from me than I took from you. Conclusion: You owe me in proportion.I'm proved innocent of violating your rights. Conclusion: you aggressed me and has a full criminal debt towards me, proportional to the actions you took against me.That's what I'm arguing.Rothbard explains it well in one of his texts, it was a text about police raids and searching for criminals. I searched it to link here but couldn't find it.I don't know how this abstract entity is supposed to know this. But that's not the point. I'm not arguing they should give everybody the ability to demand people's data like that. The way you put in OP is quite vague.Actually, ethics says you may violate the rights of someone that has made a higher violation of your rights in order to catch him. Of course that, if I do so against you and further on you're deemed innocent, then I'm an aggressor that has a debt towards you - a basic principle that should be applied to state police and courts every time they execute those raids on innocents homes, btw.That's already an objective ethical rule. But it would be nice if you could formalize that in contracts, of course. Breaking the nose of someone and running is normally criminal. But if you're breaking the nose of someone and running to avoid a flash kidnapping, that's perfectly justifiable.Disrespecting a contract is normally criminal. Disrespecting a contract to avoid the other party to steal from you is normally justifiable (unless of course the breach of contract implies you taking much more from the other party than what this party is taking from you, i.e., disproportional reaction).The main mistake of Roger here was being too impulsive. Perhaps the customer was innocent. So maybe the best action on Roger's part was to only act after some mediation decided he's right - he had the time to do so anyway. On the other hand, professional mediation would likely cost much more than 5BTC. And he was convinced the guy was a liar. If he's really correct, his actions would be justifiable in comparison to the actions of Nethead.Anyway, it wouldn't hurt to state what you say in the TOS - that they have the right to break their contract with you if you steal from them is something that's ethically deductible anyway, explicitly stating it would help making it clearer. Meh, wallet encryption is purposeless against trojans, the only protection it may offer is against an attacker with physical access to your computer, like a dishonest roommate or something. And if you use ubuntu, your home dir may be encrypted natively, so wallet encryption becomes more of a placebo feature than anything.Nice.  No, blockchain.info data was not made public by Roger, it was the Nethead himself who did it.The information Roger made public was provided to Bitcoinstore. Yes, but with the remark that Nethead was actually holding something that belong to others (theft), while Roger's mistake was simply to act on impulse and publish the liar's personal details publicly - and honestly, I'm tempted to think like Rassah here and ask "What's the fucking problem in that? Should we really be that passive and let thiefs always get away, cleanly, without even some public shaming?" Oh, come on...I was restraining myself from posting in this late drama since it was too much "storm in a glass of water" to my taste, but this abandon of self-respect here is not necessary.No, Bitcoin does not need dishonest people. Actually, nothing does. Assuming the guy is really refusing to refund the mistaken transaction (what really seems to be the case), he's dishonest and we are better off if he just disappears.It's okay and admirable to recognize your own mistakes. I just don't think they were that serious to justify all this drama... publicly posting the individual's personal details might have been unappropriated... But he shouldn't have lied and kept your money either. There were mistakes from both sides, but Roger's mistakes were certainly less serious, from a moral/ethical perspective at least.You don't need to lower your head that much. Unless I'm wrong about something, that individual own more apologies to you that you own to him. You're falling at "troll baits" here and humiliating yourself. BitcoinJ with its SVP model certainly ticks performance, privacy and decentralization boxes, at least when compared to alternatives. The only box you mention where some doubt could remain is "security"... since you're the lead developer of BitcoinJ, I must say this last comment of yours sounded suspicious... you don't trust BitcoinJ's security? You'll hardily achieve anything meaningful.You'd have perhaps more chances by attempting to talk with exchanges, since you probably know the owners of many of them, asking for an eventual block of this individual if he ever tries to cash out the money he owns you. But I'm not sure exchanges would accept to do this, as it could backfire on them.I don't know what you can do. Fortunately it's not a huge amount, it won't hurt you that much.This is true. The "part 2" problem could be "solved" if bitcoin.org did not link directly to bitcoin-qt.Before downloading bitcoin-qt, everybody should be exposed to the fact that it will download the entire transaction history, and index it locally, what's a very costly operation. People should be prevented that, if they want to avoid that, they can download a lightweight client like MultiBit or Electrum.What I mean is that I think the direct links on bitcoin.org should be removed and everybody should have to pass through this page (or an equivalent) before downloading anything. I can't afford to read the almost 20 pages for the UK report right now, but I looked it quickly and it seems to include things ranging from harassment to murder, while the US statistics start on "aggravated assault".Are you sure the comparison you are making is pertinent? Could you point me to the page of the UK report that shows the statistics concerning only actually violent crimes? No. I believe the concept of Open Carry itself is quite an US thing. I don't know of any other place where there is such distinction (concealed vs open carry).That said, the Swiss are allowed to transport their gun, without a particular license, AFAIK. Gun transportation must be done in such a way that a surprising attacker could have some time to shoot you before you react. For instance, the gun must be unloaded, perhaps locked somehow etc... I don't know the details as I don't live in Switzerland, but gun carry and gun transportation are not the same thing. The idea of gun transportation is not to have it ready for use, but just to be allowed to move it from your home to the place you'll practice/hunt with it and vice-verse.In the text you quoted yourself he mentions hunting rifles and handguns (which include revolvers, but it's not limited to). So no, by the text you quoted yourself, he cannot be saying that Swiss can only own revolvers.And I believe they might be allowed to legally buy automatic rifles, but it might be more strict. Honestly, I don't know much, I just happen to have a friend which has some family members in Switzerland so he tells me some stuff once in a while. You'll find more reliable info on the net if you want to.That nails it quite well. It's disturbing. I believe you're talking particularly about their military guns. If I'm not mistaken they can buy other guns, with different (less strict) restrictions.But... how is this post of yours a reply to the one of mine you quoted? These numbers don't tell much. It would be more interesting to see a ranking of "gun owners per capita" instead of "guns per capita", although even still I don't believe any strong correlation would be found.Guns per capita doesn't tell much. You take France, for instance, it's quite high on that ranking, showing more than 0.3 guns per capita. But I'm pretty sure that much less than 30% of French people own guns. What happens is that hunters own many guns each.Considering the deterring effect on violence, I'd say a homeowner with a pistol and a homeowner with multiple automatic rifles are almost equivalent. But still, you can't put all guns in the same bag either.It's way too difficult to try to come out with numbers for such things. The approach from John Lott in his book is probably the most reasonable I'm aware of, but even that is far from "scientific".
I like this idea.If you mean weakened by quantum computing, then only those lost coins whose public keys have already been published will be spendable. The addresses hashes are not vulnerable to quantum computing, AFAIK.Or do you have any reason to believe anything else other than quantum computing risks "weakening" ECDSA (and RIPEMD-160, and SHA256...)?I don't like this idea. This is incorrect. There's no "underlying commodity for bitcoin", Bitcoin itself is the commodity.Saying electricity and processing power are underlying commodities for Bitcoin is like saying mines and "excavation power" are underlying commodities for gold (or any other metal).This, btw, is a frequent mistake concerning Bitcoin: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Myths#The_value_of_bitcoins_are_based_on_how_much_electricity_and_computing_power_it_takes_to_mine_them CryptoXChange has been closed, AFAIK. I'm not sure I understand the issue here. Can't the device simply show both amounts (output + fee), and the user confirms that? I guess this is Maged proposal, isn't it? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=57647.msg686497#msg686497 Thanks. It's probably the blocktree thing then. I was aware of that, but until now hadn't seen this proof-of-stake concept, and there's even an implementation already. And I thought I followed bitcoin world closely enough... Could somebody link to these proposals, please? Both this "proof of stake" and "DAG". I don't even know what DAG stands for... if I remember well there was this blocktree thing Maged once discussed in these forums, it didn't really prevented chain freezing (I'm assuming that's what you mean by DoS), but it created some difficulties to the attacker. I wonder if these proposals you talk about are better.EDIT: Ok, it didn't take me long to find this https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Proof_of_StakeStill don't know what DAG stands for though. Je profite du fils de discussion pour poser mes questions aussi:Aurez-vous un système de conversion automatique entre EUR<->BTC? Genre, je configure qu'à chaque virement depuis ou vers un de mes comptes, la proportion de 50/50 soit rétabli entre EUR/BTC? Une telle fonctionnalité pourrait être utile pour ceux qui veulent utiliser BTC pour se protéger de l'inflation des EUR. Tu reçois ton salaire en EUR, une pourcentage est automatiquement converti en BTC...Au cas où un tel système est mis en place, ces conversions automatiques seraient tarifées comme les échanges manuelles?Ce serait intéressant d'avoir un compte toujours en BTC, mais qui me permet de faire l'interface avec le vieux monde en EUR. Par contre, c'est un peu bête de recevoir son salaire en EUR, payer 0,5% de frais pour le convertir en BTC, et dans le même mois repayer des frais de conversion pour pouvoir payer tous ses factures en EUR. Il faudrait que la valorisation des BTCs par rapport à l'EUR entre temps soit supérieur à ces frais, ce qui est un peu difficile. Au moins tant que l'EUR n'est pas en hyperinflation en tout cas.  If FRB = Fractional Reserve Banking then you're wrong, it's perfectly possible to do it with bitcoins, as it was possible to do it with gold.The only thing that the protocol limits is the monetary base. Higher aggregates can exist.That said, the concept of a "central issuer" inflating the monetary base to save the banks that took too much risk cannot exist with bitcoins directly, as with gold. These two items are particularly awesome. It would allow us to don't hold any EUR at all, if I understand it correctly, while still interfacing with the legacy banking system (receiving your salary, paying your bills via direct debt etc).Congratulations for this achievement. It's really great. (And btw, you don't need to (wrongly!) believe that coercive regulations have any potential for good in order to recognize that this achievement of yours is good for Bitcoin as a whole). Grondilu, it really depends on your audience.Most people don't have a clue on how paracétamol works, for example, and don't want to understand it, but they'll use it because they understand its effects.Just take a look at wikipedia page for Paracétamol. Most people would be immediately "frightened" by the first picture on the right and close the page all of the sudden. The greatest majority of people wouldn't even start reading it. I didn't.Technical audiences will be intrigued by Bitcoin and will want to learn how it works. But Le Monde writes to a broad, generic audience. Trying to explain how Bitcoin works to such audience is like trying to explain how paracétamol works. Don't waste your time. Actually, if you do, you're more likely to scare people away than to make them interested in it. Journalists writing to a generic public should not try to explain how Bitcoin works.Imagine some revolutionary new medicine has just been invented, and you're going to write about it, targeting a generic audience. Will you try to explain how its molecules interact with the human body, showing the chemical formulas and all in fancy charts? Or you will just talk about its general effects and its eventual risks?Somebody talking/writing about Bitcoin to the general public should take the same approach. Do not try to explain how the system works. Do not mention "mining". Just explain Bitcoin is a currency with no authority, supported by a distributed network of people all around the world. Explain that the money is "stored" in a file, and that if you lose the file, you lose the money. Don't talk about "addresses", instead call them "accounts", but say that accounts should be disposable: you may have as many as you want, you should only use each once, and you don't need to remember its number, the software will do it for you. You may say the wallet file contains all accounts.Some people will ask: "But how are the first coins created?". Answer briefly: "they're given as reward for those who voluntarily support the distributed network, it's an expensive task." If the person asks "But what exactly do these people do to support the network? Can I support it too?", you may just answer "That's complicated, I can't answer it without entering into technical details. People who do this are professionals. You should just know that it's them who verify that transactions are good to go".In other words, avoid going too technical - and there's no way to explain how Bitcoin actually works without going too technical. So just explain what it can do and how to use it. Self-imposed withdraw limits may also be a good idea, and perhaps more convenient to some. Any attempt of changing these limits should required 2-factor-auth or at least produce a notification, and the change should only be applicable 48h later or something. Instead of withdraw fees, they could sell "in game services and products". Like the NPC that sells you a weapon, he is actually "working" for the company hosting the game. If miners are already shrinking their blocks due to propagation time, maybe it's time to consider that protocol improvement suggestion in the scalability page, about not sending the entire block every time, just the portion your peer doesn't have.I don't know what exactly could be send instead of the body, though. Even if my peer has all transactions in his cache, doesn't he need to know the exact order I put them in my block in order to rebuild the Merkle tree? So just sending the header is not enough. Is there a shorter way to identify a transaction than its hash? Perhaps just an ordinal of the hash... you assume your peer has the same transaction pool you had, then as the body of your block you send a series of numbers which represent the index a tx hash would have in a  sorted array with all of them? Not sure that would work frequently... plus, the hash is probably small enough, it shouldn't be a big deal to send all of them. HAPPY HALVING DAY EVERYONE!This is cool. It would be 21 million times cool if Satoshi were to ressurect just to say hello!  C'est cela oui, j'avais en tête le vol de ce qui est déjà à toi. Mais c'est vrai au même temps qu'un serveur corrompu présent d'autres risques, à part la surveillance. Te faire croire que tu as reçu de l'argent qu'en réalité tu n'as pas reçu peut être grave pour un marchant, par ex. Bien remarqué, Boussac. Err, actually, computer is translated to "computador" in Portuguese and "ordinateur" (seriously!) in French. Internet is not translated. Nobody translates it, though. I always say "bitcoin", in all languages I can speak/write (which happen to be Portuguese, French, and English). I honestly don't view "thread necromancy" as a problem. As long as you bring it back with an on-topic post, of course.
Actually, they've changed their minds after they were attacked: http://googleblog.blogspot.fr/2010/01/new-approach-to-china.html Wait, but if you need a database of paths, it means the scan alone is not enough to produce the exact same path that was produced before for that individual. You're back to "comparing images".Unless you mean they use a database of path hashes, in which case the scan would have to produce the exact same path before hashing. The scan would be just like a password, and could then be used as an encryption key, provided there's enough entropy in fingerprints - in case there isn't, it could be added to an actual password. You mean that, for a given individual, you can always obtain the same unique "path"?That's plausible deniability, or more specifically, deniable encryption. Truecrypt does it.I'd expect future dedicated device wallets to implement this, but as you note it's not a priority, at least not while most burglars remain ignorant about bitcoin.  Biometric scans, AFAIK, are like images. Different scans of the same individual will produce different data, which would produce different hashes. You can compare different images to see if they belong to the same person, but if you use one of these images as an encryption key, there's no guarantee you'll ever be able to unencrypt your data.Of course that biometric scans could be used as an authentication method by a sophisticated device, but if the device is "physically hacked" and the biometric check is bypassed, you'll need something else to protect the data.And, honestly, if you're afraid of physical thefts, shouldn't you also be afraid of physical coercion? What good is a biometric scan if the thief can simply force you to put your finger/eye/whatever?As slush said before, we are not at the point where this is a reasonable threat for most of us. Hackers are a serious threat though, so we should first focus on how to protect ourselves from them first. Indeed! I also liked this one:PS: How do we make a quote linking to a different site? I see no reason to forbid someone from spending an unconfirmed transaction, even if it's not change. Particularly now that bitcoind will soon be able to sum up all transaction fees in an unconfirmed transaction chain. If you are on the tip of such chain, just add a fee to it. Grondilu, the economical meaning of "abundant" is not the same meaning of the colloquial use of the word. A resource is economically abundant when every demand for it can be instantly satisfied - no matter how much demand that is. Everything else is scarce.The sole example of something for which every demand can be fully and instantly satisfied that I know of is breathable air. And as I said above, even that could become scarce is some very specific contexts. My point was that the screen is clearly scarce, while it can be used by multiple people. I know space and seats are also scarce, but I was talking about the screen.I don't think "impossible multiple usage" defines scarcity. "Impossible multiple control" perhaps. What about a movie theater screen? Watching it == using it, and multiple people can do it at once.  Economically speaking it is scarce. If I want sea water right now, I won't have it. Some work will have to be done so it can be brought to me.Breathable air is normally referred as an economically abundant good (the sole example I know of) since we normally have it in the amount we need to satisfy our demand, anytime we want it. We just consume it by filling our lungs. But even breathable air may become scarce in some particular contexts, say, in a submarine for example.That definition can't be correct. Roads are definitely scarce, but are not "rival", many people can use it at once.Perhaps if you replace "single use at a time" by "single sovereign control over it at a time" then you start getting a better definition. Given a particular scarce resource in a particular moment in time, only one entity can be in "sovereign control" over it, meaning that only one entity can be the ultimate decision maker on what concerns such resource. Maybe that's what the text you quoted means by "single use". C'est vrai qu'il y a des variétés.BitcoinJ (et donc, MultiBit et Android Wallet, qui l'utilisent), est un client "SVP", Simple Verification Payment ou qlq chose comme ça. C'est toujours un client p2p, qui se connecte donc à plusieurs instances de bitcoind, mais qui n'estoque que les entêtes des bloques plus les transactions qui concernent le portefeuille du client. Aujourd'hui il télécharge tous les transactions quand même, ce qui commence a être trop lourd pour certains portables Android. Une fois le bloom filter implémenté, le volume des données à télécharger va diminuer drastiquement.Electrum est un programme client-serveur. Le serveur est un nud lourd dans le réseau p2p. Le client non, mais c'est lui qui gère les clés privés. Le serveur ne peut donc pas voler le client, même s'il est contrôlé par des criminels. Le serveur peut, toutefois, surveiller toute monnaie qui entre et sort du portefeuille de chaque client.Blockchain.info fonctionne à peu près de la même façon, mais avec l'avantage d'avoir une copie chiffrée des clés privées estoquées sur le serveur. Comme ça tu peux accéder ton argent de n'importe où, et même si ton client est perdu/détruit, tu peux récupérer tes bitcoins.Et finalement il y a les clients web pure, comme Instawallet, MtGox, bitcoin-central etc, où ton portefeuille reste au serveur. Des opérations automatiques peuvent donc s'effectuer sur ton compte (comme l'exécution des ordres d'achat et vente des bitcoins, par ex.), mais si le serveur est volé, tes bitcoins partent ensemble. Les eWallets souvent agrègent tous les bitcoins dans un seul gros portefeuille aussi, ce qui permet de mixer tes pièces avec celles des autres.Voilà un petit résumé. haha, well.. if one day bitcoin becomes as widely known as gold, you could certainly expect burglars to attempt to force people to give their bitcoins.But yeah, there's quite some time until that happens. Never mind, I hadn't yet read that it will not have a keyboard when I first wrote that.Definitely. One step at a time. IMHO, an impossible to re-flash hardware is much more "security freakishness" than password-protected files...And, why making an impossible to re-flash or read keys hardware if the whole wallet will likely be stored unencrypted on paper in the same physical building than the device? Somebody with physical access to the device will likely have physical access to the paper backup.Finally, if you don't consider encrypting the keys in the device, then you're not considering plausible deniability. Somebody willing to physically steal the device is much more likely to simply physically force the user to give him the money ($5 wrench attack). If you don't have multiple encrypted volumes, and you're not some sort of Rambo capable of counter-attack in meatspace, then you lose.I know. I just think it'd be nice if everybody could easily have the option of having the same level of safety and security as well, including people who don't know what the heck a "live distro" is. Pardon my ignorance, but why does it need to be initialized on an unsecured machine?PS; Please don't take what I say here as bashing criticism. Even if this device is not "physically safe/secure" at all, it would still be awesome as a protection against hackers, which are the real danger most bitcoin users face today - and will remain the sole sensible danger for years. So, just want to make sure you understand I fully support your initiative either way. I'd just like it more if it had these encryption features, that's all. EDIT: Sorry, I had not seen the previous message:Again I respectfully disagree. Most young people at least would likely find it easier to store things on their google accounts than to physically store paper in an organized and safe manner. But anyway, that's now pointless, since...If that's the case, then yeah, there's no way to encrypt things on the device.Even small keybords like those in some cellphones are that expensive? I'm really ignorant on this.If it's cheap enough, different people could have their different devices anyway. It's definitely not a showstopper not to be multiuser. Et il y a aussi un moyen terme, MultiBit, qui est à la fois p2p (ne dépend pas d'un serveur), et légère (n'estoque pas toute la chaîne de bloques dans une BD).À propos, je croyais qu'Armory était un client lourd, dépendant de bitciond en faite. Ils l'ont évolué pour le rendre aussi un client légère client-server? Fine enough, as long as the passphrase is typed only in the secure device, which will be the one encrypting it. I shouldn't need another secure device only to backup. Actually, I wouldn't bother if the paper backup is already printed encrypted. This way I can safely scan the paper in a unsecured device and back it up.A passphrase need not to be super complex, it only need to be long. The device could display a strength meter. And, again, this doesn't need to be the sole option, it could still have a printer. Plus, I hardly think people would store the value for decades and never reopen the wallet in between. This is more like your "bank account", the place where you store your salary for instance. You take some money out with the same frequency you go to an ATM. People normally don't put their life savings in "money", it's usually in the form of financial assets. (it's true that if this device supports OT, perhaps one day people could actually have their life savings in it... but still, they would open the wallet once in a while)I respectfully disagree - unless the content printed is encrypted. If you want the user to be fully responsible of his security, why even bother with this project? We should help them, and I honestly believe an encrypted backup on the cloud is safer than a piece of paper.I only know one person who has a safe at home - and that's because he's a gun owner, legally required to keep his gun in a safe. I actually have never seen a home with a safe. But anyway, that's just me. It's possible to please everyone here. First of all, my sincere congratulations for the initiative!I'm really not a big fan of paper backups. There are so many ways paper could be destroyed/lost, and there's no way to encrypt paper and send it safely to remote backup servers distributed all over the globe. Plus, if you consider an attacker gaining physical access to the device, you should consider him getting physical access to the paper backup too.I'd strongly suggest an alternative: allow the user to type a passphrase during initialization. Use this passphrase to encrypt the seed and save only the encrypted copy outside the device via USB. Obviously, instruct the user to use a strong passphrase and to back up the file as much as he can.I realize that I can scan the paper backup, encrypt it and do it myself. But then again, I would need a safe device just for this task...Cool. These are important features. But honestly, a thief willing to physically steal the device will likely not even bother hacking it, he'll just perform a $5 wrench attack (or variant) and get the money.The only potential protection I can think of against $5 wrench attacks is plausible deniability (hidden volumes) - and even that will not protect you if the attacker knows how much money you've got.By the way, "plausible deniability" may also translate to "multiuser". Each wallet user may have a different password (plus a few "fake users" just for the thieves ), which would represent a different hidden volume in the device. This way, a family for example could share the same device, with each family member having its own wallet. I think you should consider implementing this, not only for security reasons, but also for this nice safe multiuser feature.Me too! That could be quite cool too! Particularly if you could easily run an OT-server in it. If I understand OT correctly, you may have multiple servers and exchange tokens from different servers, can't you? This way each asset issuer could easily have their own safe servers, even those issuers which are not tech savvy people. But something tells me that you cannot have a server in the device while preserving its strong security constraints... a server would likely need to be upgraded frequently, I suppose. Even still, it'd be safer than using a generic computer. Not being useful for the artificial creation of credit through inflation is perhaps the most appealing feature of Bitcoin, economically-wise.If you think there's anything good in artificial credit created from inflation, please read: http://mises.org/daily/672Even the ECB "got" that, by the way. Deepbit is intentionally making empty blocks? What's the reason? To decrease its blocks' propagation time?If that's the reason, wouldn't pool operators gain if they make sure to be all interconnected? This way they could make sure other pools are the first to receive a new block they generate, decreasing the chances of losing a block. P2Poll miners could also attempt to connect to all pools too.I'm probably missing something, since if that was enough deepbit would probably go this way instead of ignoring transactions.. can somebody explain me what I'm missing then? Of course, this is awesome. In no way I meant otherwise!I tend to agree with this feeling. Managing a Bitcoin wallet and managing the Bitcoin p2p protocol are two different tasks, there's no need for them to be strongly coupled. Ok then. I thought that you had done it on purpose, as if sharing code was something bad.I'm aware about the efforts to make BitcoinJ a full node, what I find quite good. I don't know about "UfaSoft", and didn't know BitcoinJS was a full node implementation either, I thought it depended on a bitcoind running on the server. Nice to know all this. I'm glad to see Bitcoin evolving so fast. 
No idea if it's "better than bitcoind", actually it'd be quite presumptuous to say so.But usage of JPA is already an interesting point... Different databases could be plugged. Databases that support clustering or partitioning could be used."Fully normalized schema" doesn't always go well with high performance though...I haven't checked the code or anything, but if it's for real, wouldn't this be the first alternative full node implementation of bitcoin?If anything, it's an improvement in 'diversification'. And I'm glad it uses technologies I'm familiar with. I wonder how the author plans to keep up with all the development done in bitcoind though... they have many competent people improving the code and adding functionality. Just to keep up would be an enormous effort. But anyway, writing such a thing was certainly an enormous effort already!By the way, OP, why not reuse BitcoinJ code if it fits? A trespasser is an "ethical subject", somebody capable of taking rational actions, thus somebody with rights, and by extension, somebody that must respect other people's rights and should be deemed responsible if s/he doesn't. A disease is not a responsible, rational being.Let's put it in another way: imagine you have a restaurant, and without noticing it you serve rotten food to a client. The client gets sick. I consider you to be responsible. You can't blame it on the bacteria that "invaded" the food.Not that "immediately", of course. Even if something is considered to be a violation of the NAP, there are several justice principles, like proportional punishment, presumption of innocence etc. These principles would render such scenario quite rare. For less dangerous diseases, nobody would bother searching a "guilty" transmitter, because even if you do find it, any applicable punishment would likely not pay for the trouble. And even for serious diseases, you'd need to prove that it was person X specifically that passed it to you.That's why I don't think that, in a free society, people would manage dangerous transmittable diseases this way. It would likely be something closer to what Robert Murphy describes in the article I linked above: people using their discrimination rights to block sick people from their properties. I believe you can argue that she was violating people's rights. You're responsible for your properties. If your dog escapes and hurt the neighbor's son, you're responsible. If your car loses its breaks all of the sudden, while parked, and end up running over some one, you're still responsible, even if you were not driving it. If your factory or nuclear plant leaks pollution and hurt people living nearby, you're responsible. And so on.Mary was responsible for her body. Her body was the transporting a lethal disease. She could be deemed responsible.I know a real case of a disgusting man who knew he had AIDS, and still would convince his sexual partners to drop the condom, obviously lying about his health situation. He managed to contaminate multiple women on the course of the years, on purpose. I mean, he wanted to infect the highest number of women possible. I consider this man is an intentional murderer - a serial killer if you will. And yet, there's no law or any recourse his victims could use to punish him.All that said, I find the scenario presented by Murphy in his article more reasonable than a scenario in which victims would prosecute those who transmitted them the disease. For a start, it's hard to determine who gave you the disease. But yeah, if this second approach start being applied, insurances would probably cover your legal costs if you infect people. In such cases, these insurances would have an interest in isolating you from society once you get a transmittable disease, in order to reduce their expanses. Such quarantine could be foresee in your contract with the insurer, making it no longer coercive. There you have it, another potential solution to the problem.  Both solutions may coexist. And thank you for the vocabulary correction!  This topic has already been discussed by renowned authors, like Robert Murphy: https://mises.org/daily/2635Great point. If you require previous knowledge of every possible outcome of a particular move, you'll never move at all.It's a known fact - thanks to sound economic theory - that free markets are superior to coercive monopolies. Come on. That's irrelevant. Bitcion URIs and QR codes already make a good job on that front.A much greater blocker for wider adoption is the difficulty to protect a private key. The "public" simply can't do it right - even tech savvy people have issues! They will end up being robbed if they start using bitcoin.While a serious solution to this problem (= dedicated devices) is not cheaply available, Bitcoin is not ready to the general public. eWallets with 2-factor authentication might be considered a partial solution. They may protect you, but they add counter-party risk. I don't have anything in GLBSE to give up for.Yes, you should not be afraid of his ridiculous blackmail. And you're wrong about "nothing moving". He'll have to release the data sooner or later.Instead of doing nothing, maybe it's you (and others) who should be threatening him instead of letting his ridiculous threats frighten you to the point of talking about "compromising" already? You shouldn't be compromising anything. He owes you, period. A bit off-topic, but this attempt of blackmail from Nefario following his own mistake reminds me of that story about the bank who cashed-in an obviously false check: http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/93a47a62-daf0-11e1-8074-00144feab49a.html#axzz2AHzRhGU0Nefario behaved the same way the bank did. Instead of acknowledging the error and politely asking for people's kindness, he just threatened them right away. He can't afford the risk of being sued.And btw, it seems you fell quite easily to his ridiculous and outrageous blackmail. Have some self-respect!But, wasn't it you who said that asset issuers are already breaking the law for the simple fact of issuing stocks in an exchange which is not friend of the king?Sorry if I'm mistaken but in my memory you had said that.If asset issuers are also breaking the law, it wouldn't be wise of them to sue Nefario. Dishonesty and corruption make much more noise and "news" than honesty and integrity, despite being minoritary. Do they sell gold too?If buying and selling gold doesn't require this license, I fail to understand why buying and selling bitcoins would.<off-topic>IANAL, but I used to follow the discussions on seasteading. There's no natural island that's not claimed by a state, so there's no "international island"*. A vessel in international waters is supposed to carry a flag of a sovereign state, in which case it should follow the laws of this state. A vessel not carrying a recognized flag may be treated as a pirate vessel. The bottom line is that, while you may manage to acquire a lot of freedom by "settling" in international waters, potentially more freedom than anywhere else in land, you also may just be attacked if you provoke large governments enough. I can't tell you if "anonymous banking" is provocative enough, but it's among the things the seasteading institute advises not to attempt (see page 15 of this document).* Antarctica might be an exception. But states do have a sort of agreement concerning Antarctica. I don't think you could just build your new state there. And even if you could... I don't think you'd find many people willing to join you. </off-topic> They've said it explicitly once. Search for "Clearcoin". They guy had a successful business, managed to protect himself from most frauds, but still got shut down by Paypal. He was a verified user and all. The reason was because Paypal did not authorize bitcoin exchange. I suppose UXTO means unspent transaction outputs (shouldn't be UTXO?).That's a good argument.I wonder how miners would charge for transactions then. If they charge per kilobyte, then merchants still have some interest in sending less transactions. But if it's not the size that matters to miners, they'll probably charge some other way... I have no idea, but couldn't it just be that the machine you're using is not handling the load?I mean, bitcoin-qt does a lot of disk IO during blockchain synchronization. Maybe your OS ends up doing lots of swap too and it stops accepting new TCP connections because it is not managing to handle it? I don't know, just trying to guess.Maybe the best way to test would be using a SDD. Or with the blockchain in a different disk than the rest of your system, including swap. I think he means that's misleading because it only consider the download side of it. If you're a full node you're also expected to be a relay, so you might have to upload what you download too.It's hard to estimate how much you'll need to upload since you don't know how many of your peers will receive the data before you're ready to send them. Assuming only pool operators are full nodes and they're all interconnected, then you'll only have to upload transactions when the sender is directly connected to you and not to other full nodes. In this case you'd upload it as many times as you have full node peers. If neither the sender nor the receiver is connected to you (I'm assuming every thin client is using bloom filters), you may not need to relay the transaction at all.But honestly, if nothing is done to create monetary incentives to relays, I believe those Microsoft researchers might be right and eventually full nodes will not relay transaction between themselves. They have no interest, actually they have a negative interest in doing so. In such scenario (which is not that bad btw), thin clients would better attempt to connect to every full node they manage to find.Assuming this is the actual scenario, then perhaps we can estimate the total upload a full node would have to handle to be equivalent to the number of transactions times the average rate of false positives thin clients request. Say, if everybody requests 99 false positives for each relevant transaction, then a full node would likely upload 100 times what it downloads. But we should also consider that thin clients have an interest in dispersing their bloom filters in ways that no full node has the entire set. That would reduce the tps rate accordingly. It's indeed very cool. But I don't know how step 2 actually works. I suppose I'll have to read that 17 pages scientific paper on Secure Multi-party Sorting linked there.....  No. The transaction is already built with the correct outputs before you sign. You verify that your output is there. I didn't know about the pull request. It's a way of doing it, of course. But looks more like a "hack" than a clean solution to me. It generates twice as much transactions in the chain than what's necessary, and the merchant will end up spending more in fees. Is it really that bad? I mean, do you really want to make every price component explicit? Why just the transaction costs in particular, and not every other?The problem is not aggregating price components and only displaying the total, the problem is not being allowed to discriminate by means of payment (setting different prices).In the particular case of bitcoin, explicit transaction fees imply the user not only has to see a tiny price component s/he not necessarily cares about, but s/he also has to choose how much to pay. Even if you manage to abstract the mining process, people will still be in doubt about how much to give. Customers tend to be lazy. IMHO it's better to leave this task to the merchant.Competition will sort things out. I don't think it's "all or nothing".He can display the total if the fee is calculated within the price, not outside of it. Like sale taxes in general.True, that would mean the merchant wouldn't be able to know the exact amount he's going to receive before the transaction takes place. But as fees are supposed to be tiny this shouldn't be an issue. Parameters to specify a ceiling proportional to the transaction amount could also be available, solving this issue and at the same time forbidding an "evil customer" from arbitrarily creating a transaction in which the fee would be too large.  Parameters can be specified, instead of an absolute amount. Like amount per kilobyte.I once was talking to a colleague about bitcoins, and once I mentioned "transaction fees", his reaction was an immediate "ah, it won't work then, everything else is "free"". I tried arguing that in reality CC aren't free, the fees are embedded, to which the response was an insistent "but it's free to me, I don't pay anything. Why do I have to pay transactions fees in this money of yours?". That led to a discussion about "transaction processors not being forced to process your transaction etc". Things started getting technical, even though I was trying to avoid it.It's hard to explain the concept of "voluntary transaction fees". Maybe if you rename it to "tip" instead of "fee", but still.And even in this forum you can find "bad reactions" to the concept of transaction fees. Look: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=111868.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=19528.0I guess people just want to remain oblivious or not have to care about it even if they know the fact that they're paying. They just don't want to mind with it.Why can't the merchant take this responsibility to himself, if he thinks it will make it's clients lives easier? Oups! Thanks for the remark. If it's really economically inefficient, the use of such feature will be spontaneously ruled out by market forces. In the end, nobody would use it.But while the feature doesn't exist, you can't really claim that it's use would be inefficient. Reading the rest of your post I believe you're making your judgement by looking at what happens on the current scenario of state intervention in the fiat word. They definitely care, and if they could set different prices for different means of payment, they likely would. The problem here is that laws typically forbid it. The nice thing with Bitcoins is that it's not only a means of payment, but a currency too, so the price will necessarily be nominally different. Merchants can then embed the discount with no problems. In the worst case, it can be disguised in the conversion rate. Exactly, and IMHO asking for an amount + fee and then explaining that this fee will go to the p2p node who manages to process the customer's transaction and blablablabla is not convenient at all to the average Joe. People will not use bitcoin if they have to understand how it works "inside" before using it. Asking them whether they want to add a fee or not, and of how much, will automatically trigger questions of "Why? What's the purpose of this fee? Miners what? Geez, this is too complicated, get me my credit card please".But customers will be paying the costs.Understand that a merchant may use this feature in order to make his customer's lives easier while still setting different prices, depending on the means of payment used. This has nothing to do with the proposal. This is only another bad consequence of state regulations, specifically, those which forbid different prices for different means of payment.What's the problem in the merchant adding a fee? Currently, the only way they can do it is by creating an extra transaction, generating unnecessary load to the blockchain. With this proposal, they'd be "adding" the fee without creating any extra transaction. I really don't see what's bad in it, since it's optional after all. Why only the sender "has" to pay for the transaction costs, why can't the receiver take such charge to himself?
What do you think about adding an attribute in bitcoin URIs that would allow the recipient to specify how much s/he wants to pay as transaction fee to miners?If you observe most successful means of payment (credit cards, paypal etc), transaction fees are always embedded in the price of stuff we buy. They are never visible to the costumer. That's much more appealing than letting the costumer know that s/he's paying a fee - even worse if it's up to the costumer to decide how much to leave as fee. They simply don't want to care about it, they care about the final price. Plus, in the case of bitcoin particularly, it's normally the receiver who's more interested in having the transaction confirmed faster.I know that merchants may always add a second transaction whose inputs will be linked to the output of the feeless transaction, but that generates more data to be included in the chain - and consequently the merchant might have to spend slightly more in fees.It would be nice if merchants could simply add a parameter in the bitcoin URI specifying the amount they want to send as fee. Then, the costumer's client would recognize it, construct a transaction that would contain the correct outputs and the fee requested, but, when asking confirmation to the user, would show the total amount (merchant output + fee). The costumer would just see how much s/he's spending, without having to care how much goes to the merchant and how much go to miners. Actually, they wouldn't even need to know what the heck is a "bitcoin miner" and why should they be sending money to these miners.What do you think? Inflation protection. Currently Bitcoin inflates rapidly, but the rate will dramatically reduce in some years, since it follows an asymptotic curve. Government currencies inflate exponentially. But yeah, that's more a "store of value" usage, not "means of transaction".I understand that, as means of transaction, Bitcoin does not fit perfectly to every use cases, although it's great for some of them. And the reason it doesn't fit well to some use cases is mainly because conversion is still a hassle. Maybe one day it will be easier and cheaper to convert from and to legacy money. And with more business accepting bitcoins as payments, maybe one day it will be easier to earn your revenues in bitcoins as well, making conversions less necessary. In a free society, you should not be free to choose how to spend other people's resources.But anyway, I don't deny that people tend to seek places where they can better externalize the costs of their actions. All I'm arguing is that (1) it is unethical and (2) economically sub-optimal.Once I saw something about young French citizens (men and women) who would live abroad during their youth, in places where they'd pay less taxes, collect more money, and then, when they were feeling like starting a family, come back to France where they'd get many benefits for having their children there. In other words, when they are fully productive, they search the place where they get to retain more the results of their labor. Then they come back and eventually some even become a burden to society. You don't need to be a genius to figure out that's not really a good deal to the French economy...That's likely true.But honestly I tend to agree with Patri Friedman when he says that we spend a lot of effort on "preaching", and if instead we'd spend more effort on "acting" we'd get better results. Même si tu y arrives, les charge-back ne sont pas ton seul problème. Paypal fermera ton compte dès qu'ils prennent connaissance de ce que tu fais avec. Ils considèrent une violation de leur termes de service la vente et achat des bitcoins. +1 Again you show you don't understand what you criticize. Th market can't "enforce" anything.That's your opinion, your value. Some think quite the opposite.Nope, it's not.Quite on the contrary, the tragedy happens when people don't pay the costs of their decisions. State-sponsored kids are a tragedy, as those who decide to have kids don't pay all the costs of their decision.Actually, the very concept of "family" has everything to do with internalizing costs. You should read this excellent text, On the origin of private property and family.This doesn't even make sense. A contract is voluntary, if you feel the contract puts you in a disadvantaged position, simply don't sign it.Of course every individual appreciates when they may externalize the costs of their decisions to others, if that's what you mean. But that's unethical and economically sub-optimal (society progress better and faster when those who make a decision are those who fully pay for its costs and fully enjoy its benefits).Besides stupidity, the main reason for such state actions is the fact that most of these states created long ago a coercive and massive ponzy scheme called "social security", which depends on a constantly growing input of young workers to pay for those retired. Such monstrosity would never exist in a free market.If you support states which force people to pay "allowances" and other benefits to those who have children, then you definetly want to force people to do something. +1It's not that hard to understand. They actually have an advantage, a choice men don't have.Nor women! Nobody would have to contract them, since nobody would have to be a mother.Here you make it clear why having a kid is a "disadvantage" under your values.Try to understand something before criticizing it. Visibly you don't really get how market incentives work.Market incentives will push people to satisfy others with their actions, in order to have themselves satisfied. Market will "incentivize procreation" as long as people believe such procreation satisfy them.Relax, the human race will not voluntarily extinguish itself, despite some environmentalists outcries.In a free society, contracts could be made to give that guarantee, if that makes people feel better. These contract could foresee things like pensions, sharing of rights/responsibilities, conditions under which one of the parents would lose his parental rights etc. All this can be foresee in an enforceable contract. But it must be contractual (i.e., voluntary). Nobody should be forced to be a parent. Such image shows quite well how "mainstream economics" is everything but scientific. Quoting for posterity.Such rationale might explain many things that happen around here. That's the point, it's not that difficult to find someone's public address. It's not the fact that it's physically displayed in the card the problem, since as you say, the CC number is also there. It's the fact that only one funding address exist. Even people to whom I'd never show my CC could eventually discover my funding address.Why not also provide a page where you can dynamically generate a new address to fund your card, every time you want to do so?PS: I'm supposing there will only be one funding address per card. Perhaps that's not the case. One of the points of my original post was to confirm that.  Technically, the barriers should be as low as that, assuming your idea and website are good enough. But no! Thanks to unaffordable licenses and kilometric, ambiguous and incomprehensible regulations that no human being can possibly follow strictly, yeah, your barriers of entry get really high. In other words, don't start a business like this without first being a millionaire, or having one to back you up. (it won't stop on "hiring a lawyer") Luno, are you sure you're talking about the same thing?I know there's lots of gold in the oceans, but is it in the form of this gas OP's article talks about?Anyways, even if it isn't, with all the advances in genetic engineering, it might not take that long for people to be able to fabricate bacteria capable of extracting gold from the oceans. The card will be associated to a single, static address?If someone finds out my card address, s/he will be able to know how much I've put and will put in the card?I hope you implement a way of generating disposable addresses to fund the card. The static printed address might be practical in some situations, but its use should be avoided - you should also explain why to your clients.Despite that, congratulations for your development! You're already a valuable resource to this community, and it gets better by the day. Keep in mind that, in the long run, "normal" people will not have the infrastructure necessary to run a full node. AFAIK, P2Pool requires you to run a full node. Centralized pools do not have such requirement.Nothing stops a centralized pool to be part of P2Pool, though. That could be used as a way of saying "look, I follow P2Pool rules, so I can never cheat, not even if I happen to have >50%". But even in such context, the centralized pool would definitely need to make money somehow to pay for the infrastructure demanded by a full node, plus its profits. P2Pool loses 5% of its blocks?That seems really high. Do you know why?What's the average lost of other pools? Where do you get these statistics from?Thanks. It means that the block has no children blocks. (seriously, in bitcoin terminology, orphan == childless.. brilliant, isn't? ) Inflation != price rise.But nevertheless, the point is not fully correct since there's nothing stopping people from doing fractional reserves or other forms of inflation that do not depend on an increase of the monetary base. Even if bitcoin provided perfect financial privacy, that alone is not enough to allow you to evade taxes at will. Remember that long ago people did have financial privacy, but that didn't stop states from taxing them. Property taxes and at some extent VAT are difficult to evade, even if you don't use banks at all.And in what concerns income taxes, many states simply ignore the principle of "innocent until proven guilty" by forcing you to justify your means of living, and punishing you as a tax evader if you're not capable of doing so.Why calling them scammers?It's true that they should change their words. Not only because they are not accurate, but because it's not safe for yourself to say wide in the open "we can help you evade taxes!". But why this accusation out of nothing? I don't really need to, as the amount I hold in his coins is something I can afford to lose.I wouldn't advice holding huge amounts in physical wallets created and funded by a third-party. If you really want a physical wallet of some kind with a large amount, just create your own paper-wallet. How?If you keep the requirement of coins being spendable by anyone in physical possession of them (just like cash), how can you use multi-sig to avoid having to trust the issuer?
There's a protocol hard-coded limit of 1MB per block which no miner can violate (the block would be rejected by the network). There are also softer limits most miners implement, I think. But roughly, despite this 1MB limit, it's the miner's choice how to fill his block. (obviously, the block must be valid, i.e., respect fundamental protocol rules like not to include a double-spend, not to spend somebody's money without authorization etc) Oh come on, everybody knows KYC laws exist to fight tax evasion. But yeah, it might be possible that governments that don't care whether you identify yourself before buying shares force you to do it anyway, due to pressure from strong, income-taxing governments. Are you saying UK has the habit of forbidding people to do stuff  anywhere in the world?I don't understand why changing jurisdiction would not be possible.Is this the case everywhere in the world? There's absolutely no country where investors may buy shares anonymously?I know there are countries where there's no capital gain taxes. Why would these governments care whether you identify yourself before buying shares? This guy probably thought the same: http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/01/13/us-filesharing-extradition-idUSTRE80C15C20120113I personally feel the choice of UK as a place to register GLBSE was maybe not the best. UK is known to be very subordinate to the US government. I'd feel more comfortable if they had chosen a country like Switzerland, Iceland, or even a micro-country like Liechtenstein or Singapore. But well, what do I know, IANAL. Does anyone know if Open Transactions is flexible enough to support multi-signature transactions?Anyways, even if OT itself doesn't, it shouldn't be impossible to develop some sort of "certificate protocol" that does support it. So yeah, you're right davout, multi-sig is not incompatible with shared wallets. Intrabank transfers could be done outside of the blockchain - with the security of multi-signature. The blockchain would probably be used only for bank compensations. I once thought the same.But then multi-sig came by, with all its advantages. Costumers having a part of the key while the "bank" has the other is a much more safe architecture than "bank controls all".It's safe for the costumers, because they don't lose their money even if their keys are stolen - as long as the thief doesn't manage to authenticate himself as the costumer, a strong authentication mechanism is still essential.It's safer for the bank, as a hack of its wallet is not enough to spend the money. It's also safer to the banker (his meatspace self), since thugs will have no incentive to force him to give them "all the money", as the banker himself cannot do it.Multi-sig is better in many ways. But with such architecture, I don't see how can you share addresses with other costumers of the same bank. You're mixing stuff.10 BTC is everything she has to spend during the day? An amount that barely pays spa + son's dinner? I doubt. She probably has more, and the amount is probably is not "round", as probably is your bank account balance right now (or do you have an exact power of 10 as money in your bank right now?)You're thinking on "$10 bills" or other round values like that - which may still be an option, you may print BTC bills.But if the transaction is electronic, she'll probably have a "not round amount" of coins, will transfer 2 BTC to her son, and keep having a "not round amount" of coins. Where's the problem? You'll find the priority formula here: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction_feeKeep in mind these are not really mandatory. Any miner may ignore such rules and create a block with a different transaction policy.These rules were hardcoded in the Satoshi client as a method to prevent transaction spam, in the absence of something better. I hope one they these rules are replaced by an actual anti-spam code, but that's not easy and I guess there are more urgent development priorities.As most nodes respect such hardcoded fee policy, you'll have a hard time broadcasting a transaction that does not respect it - most peers won't relay it. If you really want to ignore this policy, you should try to send your transactions directly to the miner that ignores it too. +1While the Satoshi client doesn't use deterministic wallets, an alternative for its users would be to have the wallet.dat be a symbolic link towards a safe backup account, like Wuala for example.This way your backup is updated on real-time.You use strong words, but yeah, you have to understand in details how things work to be safe. We cannot expect that of most people. I still don't recommend my parents for example, to store wealth in bitcoins. And they're not totally computer-illiterate, they know how to send e-mails, to chat, to use facebook and watch youtube. My father even has a blog.  But I don't think they would be able to protect their keys. It's a pity.  he, whenever (if ever) the owners of SR decide to shut down, they could earn some money with bets like these. Agreed. And I'd risk saying the focus on technology was not deep enough for the geeks among us, and the focus on ideology was maybe too far to the "left" for my taste (no wonder why the vice reporter called it a "socialist thing").Same thing here!Cool! But please, do it during summer then. I haven't managed to read the entire thread, but saw this post, which I agree with.I support the right to own and bear firearms. But, retaliation must be proportional. Killing so quickly does seem too much to me. He should have given some type of warning before shooting (warning shot is the best since that leaves evidence), or at least assuring himself the burglar was armed and represented a lethal threat.I don't support what this man has done (if it really happened as described by OP's link) You post it at 13:30 and then complains that nobody has tested it yet at 15:15? You expected reviews and such in less than 2h?I'm particularly interested in trying to set up a raspberry pi wallet, but first of all I'll have to acquire one, what apparently isn't that fast, Didn't the attacker state his motives? Is it for money, or what? This is brought up frequently (insurance), but it's just not that simple. It's too easy to fake a theft and get the insurance to cover it.I'm not saying it's impossible, just saying that such an insurer would need a very high level of expertise to prevent himself from being cheated. The insurer would need to require the insured eWallet to implement tons of security measures, and perhaps even use multisignature techniques in order to keep some control of the coins, I don't know.I still think that multi-signature wallets, in which the eWallet costumer has one half of the keys and the eWallet the other, is probably the best solution. This would probably rule out the "old-fashioned attacks" that OP talks about, and a hack ripping off the entire wallet would also be extremely difficult. The hacker would have to install some clever malware in the server that would infect the eWallet users' machines and silently collect their keys, to spend everything only once he has most of them. And even that could be prevented with a browser addon, as suggested by Stephen Thomas in his presentation yesterday at London.With such architecture, insurance would also be much easier: the insurer can be sure that his client cannot steal all the money. The attacker doesn't need to get physical access to all servers. As long as someone has legit access to all servers, the attacker may just force this person to give him the money. Multisig won't fail if the other party necessary for the signature are the customers. I think we can safely rule out the possibility of attacking every single costumer. Sick, criminal people could do even worse things.Everybody knows who's the owner of MtGox for example. Does he have a family? If he has, they can be kidnapped...That's another reason to use multi-signature. If the criminals know that the ewallet operators are not capable of spending the money they store without the express consent of their customers, then what's the point in trying to coerce such ewallet operators?If I controlled a BTC wallet worth millions, and that was a public fact, I'd be very concerned with my personal safety. OP, juste au cas où tu ne sais pas, il y a des clients qui n'ont pas besoin de cette synchronisation, comme Multibit et Electrum (ce dernier étant client-server et non p2p, il est le plus rapide, mais le serveur peut connaître tous tes transactions.. il peut pas piquer ton argent par contre). PM sent.
Oh, thanks for clarifying. So those names are not just room categories, but different hotels, and the closest one to the conference is the Royal National whose single rooms are at 81 pounds per night, that's it?Why did you book in the President and not the Royal National if you don't mind me asking? Where will you people stay? The Prague conference had an agreement with a hotel, this one does not seem to have made any agreement, but the site does mention this hotel: http://www.imperialhotels.co.uk/Apparently it's close to the conference venue. People are already running wallets on Raspberry Pi: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=93724.0;allhttps://gist.github.com/3644551 There is no strong need to mix the "mobile wallet" and "secured, dedicated device" use cases like Ellet intended to do. These are different use cases, that may be separate.Competing with smartphones in the mobile wallet use case would be difficult since people already carry the phone around all the time. I believe most people wouldn't like to carry an extra device just because bitcoin.A cheap, dedicated device to keep at your home and use it to access your main wallet is still interesting though. Once in a while you make a transfer from this device to your mobile wallet, like when you get cash in ATM. Most of you money remains secure in an almost-unhackable device, and you only carry a small amount you can afford to lose in your unsafe smartphone. The same "invalidating chain of transactions" scenario may already happen if people accept 1 or 0 confirmation transactions. The difference with coinbase is that the money totally vanishes in a reorg, while in these scenarios it doesn't disappear, it may still be included in a future block. And still, I'm not even that sure the protocol itself should forbid coinbase from being spent right away. Perhaps people should be allowed to take the risk of accepting a transaction whose money may suddenly disappear. I believe miners in a pool would appreciate if they could withdraw their money right away, for example.Anyways, just wondering. I realize people will not want to touch this, and they have a good reason not to. No... honest nodes should consider the legit owner is cancelling the transaction.nLockTime shouldn't be used to protect against private key loss. Since you'll have to secure the target key of the transaction anyway, why don't you secure the current key the same way?The most notable use case I see for nLockTime is inheritance. You transfer your money to your heirs in a time locked transaction. But it's still your money, you may cancel the transaction and spend the money some other way. In case you die before doing it, then your heirs will eventually get the money. Of course, the thief is totally innocent.   Pardon my ignorance, but all I know about reorgs is that the block that loses the race gets ignored. Its transactions are not valid anymore and must be included in another block.Why does that makes it impossible to get the block number, or other block header data, in a script? I mean, I understand it might be complicated and perhaps not worthwhile doing. But it's not impossible, is it?That's exactly how I pictured nLockTime should work: you should be able to cancel the scheduled transaction.It does not solve what OP wants, of course. Question: is there a way, in bitcoin script, to get the block number?If this was possible it would be possible to make what OP asks with a custom transaction script. Not exactly what you mean, but there's this feature, not yet enabled unfortunately, called nLockTime. It would allow you to specify a minimum block height for a transaction. For example, you say a transaction X should not enter the blockchain before block 210K. You may release the tx now, but it won't be accepted until then. Most bank transfer take ~24h, so I'd say people might tolerate if you manage to execute them daily. Assuming you explain the reason well enough.EDIT: A very-small hot wallet, which would frequently get depleted, but that could be refunded daily too, might be even better. By very-low I mean with an amount that you could assure you can refund from your own pockets in case of a hack. What's the phone number of "e-mail"? My parents manage to use it, though.I'm not sure I'd like to see some "legal organization" claiming to represent Bitcoin... well, let's see. A healthier BTC economy might also imply in better BTC-quoted investment opportunities (stocks, bonds etc) in which these speculators could invest. No, again this is comparing apples and oranges. Savings != money.A lower time preference imply less savings. But savings have many forms, not only storing money.A higher velocity might simply imply people are more "certain" about where to place their money. If you could know everything for sure, you'd likely never hold liquid money. As soon as you'd receive some, you'd exchange it for something better right away (either an investment or something you know you'll need/want). We keep liquid money because we cannot be 100% sure of when we'll need it, nor how much. Neither we can be 100% about which investments are good or bad. Keeping money is a form of protection.Velocity might also be linked to the actual speed in which we are capable of transacting, as you and others have noted. The fact that we can easily transfer any amounts of bitcoin anywhere in the world in ~1h will probably contribute to a higher velocity. Thank you for that link, it's a very interesting text! Your math doesn't make sense, but you're not the first that I see making such mistake so I decided to reply.You're comparing apples and oranges.When people estimate that black markets are "10T USD large", they're trying to estimate the amount of production outputted by such black markets. A summed value of all goods and services produced, normally in a year time. This has nothing to do with the amount of money that circulates in this market in a given instant, i.e., its "money supply". For example, an (arguable) estimation of US total economic production is it's GDP of ~14T if I'm not mistaken. That's much more that the entire USD money supply. Granted, you must better define "money supply" as many things may be used as money... but if you take for example the M2 aggregation for USD, that's around ~10 bi according to wikipedia. More than 1000 times lower than the GDP...EDIT: Oups, my mistake, USD M2 is actually close to 10T... so yeah, not that far from the GDP, but that's still just a coincidence.  The M1 is lower. And bitcoin's 21M cap is the M0 of bitcoin. USD M0 is around 2,8T.Anyway, my point is, money supply != economic production in a year. You can't compare "black market production" with bitcoin's monetary base of 21M and reach any meaningful number. I'm not a cryptographer so perhaps someone else can answer you with more details, but from what I've read around here, the seed is an ECDSA key pair itself. A sort of "master key". So, you use the master private key for the private key series, and the master public key for the public key series. It's a nice feature of ECDSA, apparently. +1. They have a choice men don't have. I'd never call that a "disadvantage". By the way, in developed nations, there's no significant difference between men and childless women, in what concerns career, salaries etc.Also, OP should read some of Wendy McElroy texts if he believes free markets are unfair to women. But the thing is that any random number you pick will just never happen. (assuming it was really random, and not something you just took from the already existing chain).That same way, there should never exist a collision in the chain, or anywhere else in the world. The sun will go supernova much before that happens. If you see somebody talking about bruteforcing SHA-256, just show him this: https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2009/09/the_doghouse_cr.html
Je pense que la carte sera particulièrement utile pour ceux qui ont des revenus en bitcoins, et ont toujours besoin de les convertir pour en dépenser.Pour ceux qui ont la totalité de ses revenus en monnaie legacy, je ne vois pas trop le but de payer des frais tout temps, d'aller et retour... sauf si l'inflation de l'euro dévient significative au point que le simple fait de vite convertir tes euros te paye ce 1% de frais. Ce qui n'est pas tout à fait improbable: rappelons-nous qu'un jour l'offre des bitcoins va stabiliser, mais celle de l'euro ne fait qu'augmenter. Même si l'augmentation des prix en euros reste presque nulle, ça suffit que la chute des prix en bitcoins dépasse 1% entre la conversion euro->btc et la dépense avec la carte que tu seras gagnant déjà. Comme l'inflation en euro n'a pas une tendance à rester nulle...Un autre cas d'utilisation intéressant de cette carte c'est pour voyager à l'étranger. Ex, tu sais que tu vas aux EUA, tu en demande une en USD en avance, fait l'apport en btc et là-bas tu l'utilise pour tes paiement chez les marchants qui n'acceptent pas les btcs directement. J'imagine que tu peux économiser dans les frais de conversion si tu fais comme ça. Visiblement tu comprends même pas le principe. Les bitcoins ne vont pas être "consommées". Elles vont tout simplement être vendues contre l'euro dans une maison d'échange, et les euros obtenus seront utilisés pour payer la facture avec tout ces frais.EDIT: Pardon, j'avais pas encore vu le message qui suit où tu te corriges. Ignores mon commentaire ci-dessus.Cette carte n'est qu'un moyen plus pratique et rapide de faire ce que beaucoup de monde le fait déjà: vendre ses bitcoins dans un marché d'échange contre une monnaie plus liquide pour pouvoir faire des transactions avec cette autre  monnaie, mieux acceptée.Vous vous stressés par des trucs insignifiants et uniquement "symboliques", comme le logo MasterCard à coté du logo Bitcoin... franchement, si un marchant fait le même dans son magasin pour dire qu'il accepte les deux moyens de paiement, vous allez le traiter de hérétique ou quoi?  Alternative au monopole des banques centraux. Même parce que, malgré la concentration totalement artificiel et tout les protections qu'ils reçoivent des gouvernements, les banques normales n'ont pas un monopole.Une banque, en gros, c'est un organisme qui (1) garde ton argent pour toi et (2) opère comme intermédiaire dans un contrat de prêt (location d'épargne), comme une agence immobilier dans la location des maisons/appartements/etc. Ces fonctions sont importantes et continueront à exister, particulièrement la deuxième, même dans un monde sans le monopole monétaire. Arrêtes avec ce drame. Si un truc si banal peut "tuer bitcoin", donc bitcoin n'est qu'une technologie fragile de merde, qui serait tuée un jour de toutes façons. Mieux avant qu'après.Bien sûr que ce n'est pas le cas. +1 to everything you said in this post. That's how I see it too. I don't see how can that be possible without the use of a "uninfectable" dedicated device to sign the transactions.I wouldn't even say strong security to non-tech users should be a priority of the reference implementation at all. Leave that to clients like Armory. The reference implementation should focus on the protocol, IMHO. Un protocole unique de paiement par smartphone si accepté que MasterCard ça n'existe pas.L'idée de cette carte, à mon avis, c'est de permettre à ceux qui ont des BTCs de les dépenser un peu partout, même avec des marchants totalement agnostiques de l'existence des BTCs. D'après ce que je sais il n'y a pas de protocole qui permet ça dans un smartphone. Si je me trompe pas, en France il est interdit de faire des transactions en cash dépassant les 3k. Donc, si ça c'est vrai, tu as forcement besoin des banques si tu veux légalement acheter une voiture, une maison etc.Liberté monétaire? Fin du monopole, fin de la BCE et ses aides au banques qui prennent trop de risque...Déjà un simple retour au standard-or du 19ème siècle serait un énorme avance. Peut-être, mais il y a toujours les frais. Ils ont annoncé 1%. C'est une frais extra de 1% sur tout ce que tu achètes... comme si on n'avait pas assez avec la TVA...Certes, tu te débarrasses de la taxe inflationnaire. Mais est-ce que ça compense? Seul le temps dira... aujourd'hui le prix des BTCs oscille trop pour qu'on puisse savoir.Ça peut être un bon début. L'idéal serait que les marchant restent avec les BTCs aussi, pour qu'on puisse éviter ces frais. Mais pendant ce n'est pas le cas, ça peut être utile cette carte. Surtout pour ceux qui ont la chance et arrivent à se faire payer son salaire en BTC. À part ça, en tenant tes économie comme des BTCs et non des euros, tu arrêtes d'aider la BCE et ses potes. "Visa uses bribery, blackmail and fear to win contracts."http://eduardo.intermeta.com.br/this-is-how-visa-works Not necessarily, no. First of all, bitcoin is already legal. And besides that, this text shows an example of an activity that is better off in the current prohibition scenario than what it'd be in a legalization scenario. The example in question is prostitution houses in Brazil. They're currently forbidden, but if you want to open one, all you have to do is pay the appropriate bribes to the cops. According to the text author, who happens to have some friends in the business, these bribes are already lower than what taxes alone would be had the activity been legalized. Not to mention stupid licenses, labor laws, regulations etc. And if you think that being prohibited forces these business to be "shady" and dangerous, well, take a look at this or this or this. One of them even has bowling lanes inside! "Legalization" is not always a good thing, because often it comes together with taxation, cumbersome or prohibitive regulations, licenses etc etc. I wouldn't like to see bitcoin transfers crippled with the same kind of AML bullshit that affects fiat transfers, for example.A good read: Air Guitars and Bitcoin Regulation. Not me, no. This guy: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=782.0 Profit seeking double-spends are the least of my worries. You're right to say that their damage is not that significant, they can be defended against fairly well, and there are also other means to punish this in meatspace (it would be theft, after all).The most worrying kind of >50% attack is the freezing one. An attack against the network itself, not against some users.Once there was an interesting discussion about implementing a blocktree that could decrease some of the risks, but it was quite complex and AFAIK nobody took the challenge to try to build such altcoin.Besides that, as of now, only lots of processing power can protect us of such attack... You're ignoring a very important variable: time. It wouldn't surprise me if some people spend more than X to protect a X-valued patrimony during their entire lifetime, for example.Damn, I guess in a couple years I'll have spent more in car insurance than the price of my crappy old car... although in that case it's the potential 3rd party damages that counts so maybe it's not a good comparison. What should have been obvious since all development decisions are done in a publicly accessible mailing list. This is open source, after all. There should be no "secret development announcement", with the exception of critical bug fixes like that denial-of-service one.At least that's how I hope things happens... I confess I don't read the mailing list myself. See this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=98988.0They have an account in Japan. Perhaps this is the reason? https://mtgox.com/press_release_20120815.htmlAccording to MtGox, a few banks automatically convert the wires they send to Japan to JPY, even though the wire was not denominated in JPY. This piece is hilarious!It's just amazing that pretty much everything he mocks as "unbelievable bullshit" became a reality some years after...    If that was really the case always, I'd have no problem with trademarks. But often that's not the case. For example, if I make a site with an image mocking Coca-Cola's logo, even though I'm not selling anything that could be confused with Coca's products, I'd still be under the risk of getting sued and losing it (This is a real example).Trademark, as currently enforced in most places, is "property" over an image or phrase, what's absurd in itself.  Well, you do need to trust the server not to omit things from you, and most important, not to collect your financial data (log all your transactions, collecting data about how you use your money and how much you have in total).I guess that's precisely what the OP wants to avoid (having to trust someone).You can use Tor or other proxy to avoid having your financial data linked to your IP when in P2P mode. Tor's not enough when in client-server mode.
You don't need to trust anyone to run a lightweight p2p node.A lightweight node is one that only keep block headers.Currently, the single implementation of light p2p node I'm aware of is BitcoinJ. And this implementation still downloads every block content IIRC, to check if you have a tx in it. It only stores the headers. This will be a problem once downloading blocks requires more bandwidth than what an average user can have, but we're still far from that (the problem with the main client is inserting the data in the database, not downloading it). And people are already working on implementing Bloom filters that would allow lightweight clients to only query the transaction set that interests them, and still be able to be sure it's valid due to the Merkle root in the block headers.Those who should worry with scalability are those who must use a full node: pool operators, solo miners and miners in P2Pool. They'll be paid for it, though.Pruning might help those who need a full client, but yeah, I agree with your feeling, it's probably not that relevant. At least I believe their main issue will be bandwidth not storage. The simple fact that one can consider reserving "Bitcoin" as a trade mark shows hows screwed up this whole intellectual property thing is.Thank you MtGox for making sure no "patent-troll" will gain control over the name Bitcoin. And if this ever gets implemented, you won't be able to always assume that any more.  That's what I meant too. Adding a note explaining why this failure is listed as a success. I agree the contents should match the printed version. I'd do that. Perhaps use PDF annotation feature as said by casacius to add a note stating that when the magazine was published, Bitcoinica was still operating normally. @André, are you sure you mean "cash" as in "dinheiro vivo/em espécie", or do you just mean to buy "à vista"?I think just having such amount of cash with yourself is illegal in most places, unless you have proper authorizations. No Brasil, até o Bitcoin se popularizar, acho que a gente pode imaginar que quase todo mundo terá um smartphone. Então sei lá, utilidade questionável.Seria interessante se alguém conseguisse montar rapidamente esse tipo de coisa num lugar como o Quênia por exemplo, onde as pessoas já estão acostumadas a fazer compras por SMS. Esse tipo de serviço pode ser útil pra quem não tem smartphone. Mas pra ser funcional, tem que ter atalhos pra evitar de digitar o endereço completo no telefone, como faz o coinapult, permitindo que você use número de telefone ou e-mail como alternativa. Talvez mesmo dar um código pra cada usuário do sistema (com checksum, por favor!) pra facilitar ainda mais. http://coinapult.com/sms-wallet Lack of property rights, or lack of respect for such rights. And nothing like free markets to assure their survival: https://mises.org/daily/5960/Property-Means-Preservation I wasn't event aware that the same input could show up multiple times in the same transaction.You're forced to point out, in your transaction, which was the transaction that credited your input? And you have to make a signature for every "previous output"?If that's the case, it indeed looks as waste of space. Thought I should bring this here:The End of Gun Control? (by an anti-gun in Forbes)After what the article above describes becomes common, nobody will be able to keep using this lame and false excuse that "gun control can reduce the availability of guns to criminals". It will finally become pretty obvious that's not the case. Gun control, more than before, will only prevent honest people from having guns. If your number is right, that's not simply "more capacity than NSA has". That's more gigabytes than some estimations of the number of atoms in the known universe. I'd guess more than all Earth's matter would be able to provide, since the amount of energy to calculate all that compares with the amount of energy the Sun can produce.But, let the professionals answer you with some good math. ;-) That's why I said I find a leak more likely. Somehow, the attacker found the password.Does BTC-e have employees or is it a one man show? Good decision. It's important to understand how the password leaked to prevent it from happening again. This worries me.Have they figure out how the password leaked?It definitely was not brute-forced. In the best case, it was "guessed" or "dictionary attacked" if it was not random enough, and then changing it should be enough. But if it has leaked (what I find most likely), and BTC-e doesn't know how it leaked, then the same thing may just happen again.The platform should not resume its operations before understanding what happened and taking measures for it not to happen again. At least Liberty Reserves deposits and withdraws should be temporarily closed, since that's what leaked. I see your point (same of Mike Jones above, I believe).Yeah, it's probably very difficult to insurance against something that could so easily be a "voluntary failure". Perhaps really impractical. Why do you say so?I see a demand for deposit insurance in bitcoin world. If nobody has offered that yet is probably because nobody has the skills and money to start one, or those who eventually have the skills (and money) are not aware, or do not believe in, such demand. In any case, this may change.
Yep. Unless it was not random enough, like the full name of someone in charge or something - but then I wouldn't call it "brute force" any more either.The password probably leaked somehow. If I were behind BTC-e, I'm not sure I'd put the service back up before figuring out what happened. If somebody had access to the password once and you don't know how he did it, then what's to stop this person from have access to it again? Thanks!But.. why always double-hashes? RIPEMD-160? For what is this one used in bitcoin? (guessing attempt, to create the address from the public-key?) I don't believe the guy was talking about brute-forcing it, but finding a flaw in such algorithms. To me, he was implying that every cryptography algorithm has flaws, and it's just a matter of time before they are exploited.I wanted to counter-argue on how unlikely it is to find such fatal flaws in any of the algorithms used in bitcoin. So, the champion of losers remains "MerkleHellman knapsack cryptosystem"?6 years before being broken? And, can I say MD5 was the most "messy" case of broken cryptographic algorithm (caused more actual damage)? Or WEP caused more trouble? Hard to compare I imagine... I think the "magic bullet" of quantum computing, concerning bitcoin, would be used against ECDSA. AFAIK, if you manage to build one in secret, you could start stealing some bitcoin addresses secretly.But still, I believe the devs will have the time to change the pubkey algorithm before such threat becomes a reality. In case it hasn't been clear to everybody else, this is precisely the kind of silliness that I wan't to point out. (EDIT: That is, I want to point out how silly it is to think like that!) Good point.How "trustworthy" is bitcoind implementation of ECDSA and SHA-256? I suppose Satoshi didn't implement it himself, did he? How long have the libraries used being available? Rjk, about MD5, how "broken" was it? I realized it became fairly easier to crack it, but it still needed a considerable effort in calculations. If a serious flaw is found in any of bitcoin's algorithms, but we have time to change the algorithm in use, that's still not that catastrophic.Still on MD5, according to wikipedia, it took only 5 years from MD5 birth (1991) for a considerable flaw to be found. From that point on its usage was already questionable. 9 years later a more serious flaw. Only in late 2008 its obituary was finally published. So, it didn't happen "all of the sudden". If anything comparable were to happen with SHA-256, we should have time to adapt.DarkEmi, I believe we can safely rule out the possibility of someone proving P==NP.  If that ever happens, bitcoin is the least of our problems. Yeah, and the world could also really end this year, but come on... what are the odds?Do you know of any algorithm nearly as old and widely used as SHA-256 or ECDSA that have ever been broken? Thanks damnek.So that one lasted 6 years, apparently. The wikipedia page doesn't say much about how widely used it was, but since we are talking about early 80s, I imagine it wasn't that much used.So, "auction" started. Any bids higher than 6 years?  Probably wouldn't help, but the guy wants to know, let him know. It's his account after all. What's the big deal in knowing which IPs were used to access your own account? The person in question was probably implying that cryptography is not safe (not "everything"), and that we should therefore not trust any significant amount of money in it. It's not about brute forcing I'm talking about, that's obviously out of the question.I'm talking about a potential flaw in the algorithm, like that WEP one. I've recently been challenged with this "criticism", "all cryptography is breakable, it's just a matter of time", and thus concluding that bitcoin is not safe.I'm pretty confident that the odds of a fatal flaw in algorithms so established like ECDSA or SHA-256 are so tiny that we should not even bother.I wonder though if somebody here has some data that could help me hold such claim.For example, what was the worst case of "broken cryptographic algorithm"? By "worst" I mean which took the longest to happen and/or affected the largest number of people who were already trusting the algorithm.Has any fatal flaw ever been found in an algorithm as old (at the time the flaw was discovered, of course) as ECDSA for example? It's a bit clear to me that the longer an algorithm resists to professional scrutiny, the less likely it is to have a flaw. But having some numbers would probably help.Thanks! How does this person know for sure Zhou Thong was behind U9236056? He had no authorization to operate investment funds, basically. At least that's what I've seen. I'm sorry but,Who are you?Are you claiming you have evidence that LR account U9236056 is controlled by Zhou Thong? Could you really prove that?What do all those Chinese symbols in your post mean?Thanks It might help. With everything being public, an eventual typical police inactivity would also be public. There's some incentives for them to actually do their job (even because most of the job's done already). If everything is done entirely in private, the police could just behave as usual (i.e., do nothing useful) and that would be it.But you do have a point. Perhaps they should have tried to contact Zhou before releasing his private data like this.This is all quite delicate. I agree. That's why I don't yet recommend bitcoin to non-technical people. At least not in any sensible amounts.I do believe though it's just a matter of time until the resources necessary to overcome such problem are available. You believe "the police" would do any better? They would probably just file a report and ignore it, as always. Unless some of the victims give them some incentive$ to do anything, of course.Anyway, let's avoid derailing such a "tense" thread.
LOL They've already said that explicitly to one of you?I imagined that AurumExchange being an important client of Liberty Reserve, they would be OK with at least saying Yes or No to the "Did such transfer happen?" question.Anyways... guess the way is to start a criminal complaint then.Seriously, you 3 together have done a much better investigation than any "actual investigation" most official judges or police bureaus in the world would. The only think you lack is "authority". If I understand this correctly, the only "missing link" that would definitely prove Zhou to be guilty is the transfer from the LR account the hacker used to withdraw from Aurum to the LR account Zhou used the next day to deposit in Aurum and request the wire.The only entity which can provide such information with authority is Liberty Reserve itself.AurumExchange, MtGox and Bitinstant, please, try to contact Liberty Reserve, in an official manner. If they don't respond, try to reach them via lawyers or something. I know it's possible that they'll just ignore the requests, but you'll never be sure if you don't try.Zhou Thong, if you are innocent as you claim, I guess the best take for you is to abandon your financial privacy and make it clear, at least for the 3 exchanges above, where did the funds come from, and where they were going to. If you can prove a clean source for this money, I guess your fine. Everybody knows you're rich, so you having such money is reasonable. It is just that there are so many coincidences in place that's perfectly natural everyone to be suspicious of you. Come on, you can't say it's a "bitcoin bug" the fact that so many "bitcoin-banks" have failed. It is really unfortunate and even tragic to some, but it is not a "bug".Most people, even professionals, don't really know how to secure critical private data. Even Sony lost lots of its private data once. Is it really such a surprise that small companies, however motivated they are, fail in something that big companies with tons of money to spend in security have also failed?The main "problem", if you will, is that in bitcoin, differently from the "fiat world", your private data is your money. But that's also an advantage of the system, in some situations.Agreed. But again, that's not that easy to solve either.I expect these dedicated devices like bitcoincard and Ellet to be a huge contribution into solving this issue. Perhaps not quite "however you want". Threats are a form of aggression too, and the use of proportional force to repeal such threats is acceptable. The same way you cannot shoot towards an innocent crowd - even if you don't hit anyone -, you can't drive totally recklessly, threatening other drivers or pedestrians - even if you haven't yet damaged anyone, your behavior can be seen as a threat.But more important, we should note that in a free society, streets and roads would have owners, who would be free to set their arbitrary rules for the usage of such roads if they want to.To vampire:Blasting strong sounds over somebody property is an obvious aggression, as with any so-called "negative externality". Important to remember that the principle of "proportional force" always remains when dealing with any [attempt of] aggression.And finally, concerning "public obscenity" in a free society, then it really depends on the owner of the place you are. If, for example, you are in a condominium where people are allowed to have sex on the streets during daylight, then well, they are allowed, I think we can safely conclude most places would not allow such things though.Now, seriously, would it be that difficult to realize what I've just wrote you by yourself? Are you limited in your imagination and deductive reasoning, or you just like to throw here whatever comes up in your mind instantly, without even trying to think for a couple minutes what the answer to your challenges would be? If this was your first contact with libertarianism I could understand it, but I don't think this is the case - or is it? I really think you could answer those things yourself, if you actually wanted to. Perhaps, but you cannot deny that they are less likely to even start it if the costs are too high. Check this related interview: http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig2/stagnaro5.htmlPlus this again, which has already being linked here: http://abcnews.go.com/Nightline/john-joe-grays-militant-group-texas-compound/story?id=9819578#.T-x1N7WXRS0Also, there's police brutality too. I already gave an example here in this same thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=90086.msg994129#msg994129 My point is clear in the same paragraph you quote, Mr Attentive Reader : comparing different countries violence rates is dumb, as there are too many variables.Did you even read the paragraph that follows the one you quoted above? A guy did try to isolate other variables (by comparing the same place after/before legal changes concerning guns) and he did conclude that More Guns, Less Crimes (name of the book). I realize his comparison is probably not perfect, but it's certainly better than comparing different countries/regions. The situation would probably not have happened if something like 20% of the crowd was armed.Comparing countries like this is dumb. Why don't you compare with Brazil, then? Stricter gun laws than most European countries. I've already met French legal gun owners after a couple years living here, whose guns were not part of their jobs. The only Brazilian legal gun owner I've ever met after more than 20 years living there was a professional body-guard. Having a legal gun in Brazil is extremely difficult. Now go take a look in the crime rates there.If you want statistical data - what's never a good start point when studying societal behavior, as Mises already explained - at least make some attempt of isolating other variables. Thousands of variables influence criminality. The research done by the author of More guns, less crimes at least tries to do such, by comparing each USA county against itself, after and before legal changes concerning gun permits. The name of the book already states the conclusion. I'm sure it's not the perfect, but at least is less lame than comparing different countries/regions.I used to believe gun control is important to reduce violence, as that's taught in Brazil repeatedly. But then I've decided to check what I've been told.And plus, there's always the ethical argument you people just ignore. If some dude is carrying a gun, but not hurting everyone, who the hell you think you are to point your gun to him and order him to give away his weapon, and eventually even throwing the guy in a cage? Seriously? That's your idea of "civic behavior"?A nice (and fun, as usual with Penn & Teller ) video to watch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SCXtfR0_roE Good points. I highlighted an important part of your post.If criminals are never punished, innocents will always pay for it one way or another. Security is not free. If we didn't have to worry much about criminals, we could use these resources in better ways. And I know no better way to create a counter-incentive to crime then to punish those who commit it.Me too, except that I don't think this problem is exclusive to bitcoin. It's a "cyberspace problem". Hackers are almost never punished, and the costs of their actions fall over everybody else. Actually, as Timo Y quoted below notes, it's a little better in BTC-world than in CC-word as here the costs of a hack are not totally diluted. (I wouldn't be so harsh on all those who put their money on Bitcoinica though...) I consider myself an optimist concerning Bitcoin. But this is too optimistic even for me. You can't compare with Skype like that. It's pretty easy to create a Skype account, and most important, there's no commitment in doing so: you don't have to spend a penny.Putting ~$700 on this "weird new technology" though, it's a whole different thing. What about Detlev Schlichter's talk? Is it available somewhere? Every full node. Only pool operators and solo miners need to be full nodes. I understand this, I just wonder if some rationale was given for this "weird" rule.For sure, definitely not worth the trouble. Particularly since it was Satoshi himself who created this rule, which only concerns his own coins. Why can't the very first 50 bitcoins be spent? This is indeed amazing!Do you have any sources for that?And what about that story that ECDSA is not quantum-proof? I suppose that's a "cryptographic flaw" then, meaning that a quantum computer can take a much shorter path than brute force. Is that the case? Fair enough.But not being the victim doesn't make you the criminal either... Criminal negligence (unintended crime) normally applies when your negligent action directly caused the crime. Like, if instead of paying attention to the road while driving you prefer to look to the tiny skirts of some lady passing by and you end up hitting someone, that's criminal negligence. If you are watching some woman's purse on an outside restaurant, and a thief grabs it and run away, you're not the criminal, the thief is. At least that's how I see it. It's not a crime to be stupid/naive or not to know good security practices. It's a crime to steal.Anyways, I don't feel like defending Bitcoinica either. This was way too much fail.I just hope the actual criminal is caught. If he withdrew USD, he did leave a clearer trail. That's what this whole thread is about, blaming the victim. Assuming OP is true, then Bitcoinica is the victim of a theft. Everybody here is blaming Bitcoinica, not the thief.If this is really a theft, and the thief wired money to accounts of his own, I really hope all this AML crap is for once put to good use and this asshole is caught, and forced to return everything he's stolen.If it's not a theft*, then MtGox at least would know. I hope in this case they break the silence, otherwise they would be accomplices.*EDIT: If it's not a theft done by a third party. Either way the costumers' money was stolen.  Can't you apply most or all of these items to pretty much every bitcoin business available?AFAIK, none of the exchanges had their source code audited, for ex. But as dollars or jewelry, you can, theoretically, insure them. It just happens that bitcoin is so new and unknown that I don't think there's any insurance available yet.
The post says that they had two accounts, one with Yubikey, another without, and that they were trying to get the limits of the one without Yubikey raised...  I thought a verified account could only transfer large sums to bank accounts of their own. Didn't some guy from this forum had issues with a wire he sent to his wife's account or something?Anyone, I wish you good luck tracking this criminal.This whole thing is way too awful. I'm sorry for everyone involved. I had to clear my browser's (Chrome) cookies in order to log in back again. Was it to be expected? Pardon, mon erreur alors, c'était exactement ça que j'ai voulu dire, interdire quelqu'un d'entrer chez toi. Dans son message il dit d'abord "action de contraindre" et après "interdire l'accès" et j'ai fini pour interpréter comme la même chose. Non mais j'ai dit s'il me contraint d'entrer à sa maison à lui, pas la mienne bien sûr. Donc si tu me contraint d'entrer à ta maison, je suis victime d'une coercition de ta part?Si tu veux aller aux dictionaires, regardes wiktionary: 1. (Droit) Droit quon a dempêcher quelquun dagir contre son devoir ou de le contraindre à faire son devoir.2. (Par extension) Action exercée contre quelquun pour le forcer à agir ou lamener à sen abstenir.(1) parle évidement de la coercition légitime, applicable dans un cas de contrat par ex. (2) c'est justement le terme dont on parle ici, vu qu'Apple n'a pas une obligation contractuelle d'accepter tout ce qu'on lui fourni.Si Le Monde ou Figaro refusent de publier un article que je leur ai écrit et envoyé pour publication, tu vas me dire que c'est de la censure? Bien sûr que non. Au pire, c'est de l'auto-censure, le choix volontaire de ne pas exprimer/publier quelque chose. Mais comme j'ai dit antérieurement je n'aime pas ce terme, "auto-censure". Mais non, à aucun moment Apple est en train de menacer ou dagresser ces éditeurs.Bah, tu sais jamais non plus quelles nouvelles types de viandes non-halal vont être créées demain. Au Brésil il y a certains coupes de viande que je ne jamais vu en France par exemple. (ça sans compter la possibilité de l'ingénierie génétique de carrément développer des nouveaux animaux )Tu as eu des fausses expectatives. Je m'en doute vraiment que le contrat dit que tout nouvelle application inventée par n'importe qui sera acceptée dans leur marché. Même pas Google doit faire ça.Aucun besoin que ça existe.Ce n'est pas de la coercition. Personne n'est agressée ou menacée.Certains appellent ça d'auto-censure, quand tu volontairement exclu un contenu de ta publication. Je trouve un peu bizarre comme terme, vu que la censure est forcement quelque chose imposée par quelqu'un d'autre. Dire auto-censure pour moi c'est comme dire "auto-assassinat" pour parler d'un suicide, mais bon, le terme est utilisé comme ça, peut-être à cause dabsence d'un terme spécifique.Ce n'est absolument pas de la censure tout court, par contre. C'est vrai ça. Je crois avoir lu quelque part qu'Apple se réserve des droits même sur ce que tu produit avec certains de ses logiciels. C'était du jamais vu ça. Genre, ce serait l'équivalent à Microsoft exiger que, au cas où tu écris ton bouquin avec Microsoft Word, tu dois leur verser une pourcentage sur chaque copie vendue. La plateforme appartient légitimement à Apple, donc elle peut refuser ce qu'elle veut d'y entrer. Je ne peux pas entrer à ta maison si tu me le refuses, ou te forcer à accepter des "propositions" par rapport à son design ou quoi que ce soit, peux-je?Ne pense pas par contre que je suis en train de défendre leur attitudes. Je trouve stupide. Mais ce ne sont pas des attitudes coercitives, elles sont légitimes d'un point de vue éthique.Si le contrat disait explicitement que ces applications ne seraient pas refusées donc là oui ça change tout. Mais je m'en doute vraiment que ce soit le cas.Décision stupide. Mais pas coercitive, non. Attention aux mots. Apple ne t'oblige pas d'acheter ni d'utiliser leur produits. Il n'y a donc rien de coercitive, c'est un contrat volontaire. Rien de comparable à la vrai coercition imposée par la sécurité sociale ou tous les autres "services" dites "publics". Cela dit, l'image posté par grondilu résume bien l'affaire.  Je n'ai jamais acheté quoi que ce soit de cette entreprise et jusqu'à là je n'en ai aucune envie de le faire. It's naive to believe that gun control laws will take the guns out of the hands of those who don't care about the laws. I'm sure they won't. They'll just take the guns out of those who care about following the law.I live in France, but I've grown up in Brazil. Both have draconian laws regarding gun-control, it's hard to tell which government is stricter on the matter. France criminality rates are much lower than Brazil. And I'm pretty sure that this has nothing to do with gun laws. For multiple reasons which I'll not try to speculate here, average people in France are just less prone to initiate violence themselves than average people in Brazil. They are more "honest", we may say. It really isn't a matter of France having better security forces or practices, of that I'm sure. Most buildings here have no security, I'm yet to see electric fences around houses, people carelessly leave their cars to sleep on the street, I see less policemen on the streets here than what I see in my home town in Brazil, private security is almost non-existent etc.Although I believe the best path to "world peace" is free trade, I'll just quote what I've written above again: I'm pretty sure that all governments who don't yet have nukes, don't lack them because they "follow the anti-gun-arguments", but more likely because either they aren't capable of building them, or they are afraid of international retaliation - which, by the way, is as hypocritical as the state saying that citizens cannot have guns, only state employees can.  I agree you "deserve", but you don't get to force the seller to tell if he doesn't want to. Just don't trust him and don't buy from him if you find it suspicious.I believe the law in question was about forcing a label. The simple fact that some people want to force others to put a particular label on their products is already suspicious too. Thanks, I'll take a look.This subject looks quite interesting. What does it mean then?Btw, do you know where I can learn more about the subject? Besides blogs I've been reading and all, is there a "big 3D printing forum"? I'd say it's precisely people wanting to coercively control other people's lives, like you, who desperately need to learn their limits.It's not me who's taking their options to buy these!Nuclear bombs cannot be used for self-defense. Their usage will inevitably hurt innocents.Plus, relax, even in a truly free society, nobody would be able to buy weapons of mass destruction in a super-market. Not only it's totally unfeasible, as absurds like this can be prevented without coercive institutions. You can even have some level of "voluntary gun control" in free societies, and I believe you'd probably have the option of living in a "gun free" place if that's what you wanted.Finally, "my society" (which?) hasn't decided anything, because that's impossible. Societies don't make decisions. You seem to confuse societies with governments, that's a serious mistake. Biodegradable plastic?? Why would I want to produce objects that would "rot" spontaneously? I hope you have the option of using durable plastic too... Recently I found out these printers are becoming more accessible to end users. Until a couple weeks ago, I thought they were industrial grade equipment, not something one could have at home.Does anyone know if there's a "main 3D printing" forum, something like bitcointalk.org for 3D printing? I've googled a little but all forums I found were almost "ghost forums", with just a couple dudes posting something once in a while...The subject is quite interesting, I'd like to learn more. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=15958.0 It might not change the nature of criminals, but it might change at least the way they would proceed. In Brazil, as criminals know people are mostly defenseless, they don't burglar your house. They just wait for you to come back from work, point a gun at you, and rob you with the convenience of you telling where things are, giving your bank card for some withdraws while others watch you and so on.In places where lots of people have guns, criminals tend to prefer furtive burglaries, when nobody's at home.Off-topic, but that's why the human action should be studied praxeologically, not empirically. Here you are just saying poor people tent to be more criminal. Hooray to prejudice!I wonder if all these hackers stealing from bitcoin owners are also from poor families who lacked education...I don't believe the level of income or education influences a person moral values. What it does influence, is how criminals will act. Those who have criminal intends but lack education, will probably resort to violent crimes, as that's all they know how to do. Smarter immoral people will resort to elaborate scams, cybercrime, creating "new religions", political career etc, that is, ways to take other people's money that are more efficient, call less attention and are much less risky - sometimes not even ethically/legally criminal, but immoral for any person capable of understanding what's going on.Summarizing, IMHO being poor/uneducated doesn't influence the chances of being immoral, it just influences the kind of attitudes and immoral person will have.It's not just self-defense in dangerous situations. An armed society is also a strong dissuasion against some types of crimes. The idea is that you never really have to pull the gun.There's no such thing as a free lunch.These services are financed with money stolen from the productive sector. That's just another disguised, massive crime. If massively increasing theft is your technique to reduce criminality rates, you're doing it wrong.There's nothing wrong with selling drugs, it should be allowed. And nobody needs to steal to survive.Ok if you want to dedicate effort to that. But you should realize societies cannot be engineered.Why not both?It's perfectly fine to have one's opinion on that matter, and not wanting a gun. The problem is that normally those who advocate gun control want to impose their opinions on others, by forcing them not to have guns. The thing is that you don't get to tell what other Canadians should be doing, at least not in an authoritarian manner. If a single innocent person, Canadian or not, wants to own a firearm, the rest of the entire planet has no ethical right to stop him/her.
Oh please, you want to ban smoking now? Just let people kill themselves as much as they want! Jeez...If that's really so, why don't we just stick with ethics then? It's plain simple, logic and straightforward: you don't get to use violence against someone who's not using violence against anyone. Somebody merely bearing a gun isn't causing harm to anyone. Nobody should use violence against him only for that. I assume they are not suicidal, and that politicians don't want to trigger a potential revolution. Probably the eviction would have happened regardless of people having guns or not, but they wouldn't have done it so brutally, passing bulldozers over the neighborhood, doesn't even giving time for people to take their furniture, belongings and pets out. People were even ran over and killed by those trying to run away from police bombs. Even the police captain admitted that police used excessive force in the operation. If the population was partially armed, such an attitude from the police would potentially turn an eviction into a mini civil war, potentially sparkling something much bigger. Politicians definitely don't want that - what was done was already enough to put a lot of pressure on them, if a mini-war happened, things would get much more serious. No wonder why politicians all over the world want to take guns out of people's hands. Even in the sole nation I'm aware of where there's an explicit and clear constitutional amendment forbidding that, governments do it nevertheless. Sometimes the general case of "defense against state abuses" is quite relevant, even if we're not talking about revolutions.For ex., some months ago, maybe an year already, the state of São Paulo in Brazil proceeded to evict hundreds, perhaps thousands of people, living illegally for years in a land they apparently didn't own. Putting aside whether they were legitimate owners of those houses or not, it is a fact that police brutality during such eviction process was shocking. Among many atrocities, some people even got killed by the police if my memory doesn't betray me. It was on the national news for a while.I bet with you that, if 20% of those people had guns in their homes, at least the eviction process would have been conducted in a much more civilized manner. The police wouldn't dare to do it the way they've done it. Say that for yourself.I have several friends who have been threaten by armed criminals. Friends who had armed criminals entering their homes, robbing them on the street during daylight, flash kidnapping them at night. I have multiple friends who have been the target of guns multiple times in their lives. When I was in high school I was robbed by a criminal with a knife, in front of the school. And my mother once was surrendered by criminals that waited her get back home, put a machete on her throat and demanded her money.And important remark: all this happened in a country with draconian gun laws. A civilian bearing a gun on the streets is always illegal. And even civilian legal ownership of firearms is extremely difficult to obtain.I bet that if my mother was allowed to bear a gun with her all the time, those criminals wouldn't have dared to threat her like that. At most, they would try to break into the house while nobody was there. Same thing's valid for most cases.Sometimes I make a comparison that's not very popular, but IMHO it makes some sense: individuals bearing guns are comparable to states which have weapons of mass destruction. No single state with such weapons has ever been military attacked. India and Pakistan used to make war, once both got nukes, both got "calm". I bet the cold war wouldn't have remained cold if it wasn't for the fact that both sides had nukes. Going to war against a state which has weapons of mass destruction is almost suicide, even if you're also a state with such weapons. Trying to assault/rob/etc somebody with a pistol on his waist is also very dangerous, potentially suicidal, even if you also have a gun (okay, okay, I know ambushes and alike remain possible but these are premeditated murders, not general for-profit aggression... it's more rare).  OP, I used to be against armed civilians for years, probably due to all the propaganda I used to listen to.But once you dig more into the subject, you understand that not only there's no conceivable ethical justification to the use of violence against someone that's merely bearing a gun, as there are also studies showing that a society gets safer once it gets more armed, and get less safe once it gets less armed. Instead of comparing different societies with several different variables that may influence in violence rates, if you compare the same society before and after a legislation change that decreases or increases the amount of guns in the hands of civilians, you'll probably reach the conclusion that "More Guns, Less Crimes". Security. Dedicated devices are a much safer way to access your "savings accounts", as it's extremely unlikely that a dedicated device gets compromised by malware.The same thing cannot be said about a generic computer, either desktop, laptop or smartphone. Thanks apetersson for the clarification.This looks very promising. I also wonder the same thing. Why is their server involvement necessary for the backup process? Can anybody tell?If the server holds the btc private keys, that's awful. But that would go against what's said in the same post:So, why is the server necessary? Does the server hold a specific key in which the device trust, and the device would both require the signing of challenge by that key as well as physical intervention (pressing buttons) before releasing the private key for backup?Although that would considerably decrease the danger of the server having its key hacked, as the key alone wouldn't do much, I just don't see the point in such architecture... Btw, will the device be able to use deterministic wallets? This is silly. GMail allows me to see every IP I use to log in to their service. Facebook makes me go through extra identity checks when I log with an unusual IP. Why can't MtGox do the same?Btw, saying "file a police report" to me is like saying "you got screwed and we won't help you anyhow, move over". I've seen police being utterly useless for much more serious cases. Even if we were to take items (1) and (2) for granted, you still cannot conclude (3).When you say "this bill X is backed by Y", you're stating that there is someone (normally the issuer of X) who is contractually obliged to redeem your X bill for Y at reception. He must give you Y if you give him X, otherwise it would be a fraud. So it doesn't make sense saying that something is backed by "the entire economy", as such contract wouldn't even be possible.A "money backed by something" is not "base money", it is just a "money substitute".  By definition, base money cannot be backed by anything. And bitcoin, as gold and government money for that matter, are all base money (= the component(s) of the monetary base, or M0). If I understand it correctly, it is a federal law to allow states to force producers to put a particular label on their products in some cases.Any consistent libertarian has to be against forcing people to do things they don't want to do with their property. Rand Paul's vote is as expected. About entitlements and taxes in US, I'll just leave this here: http://www.zerohedge.com/article/entitlement-america-head-household-making-minimum-wage-has-more-disposable-income-family-mak That's not very accurate as comparison since these billionaires you talk about don't hold >60 bi USD in cash or in their bank accounts as money. They hold an enormous amount of assets which, when quoted in dollars, reach such value. But these assets are not USD and could very well be quoted in BTC for example.OP's BS nevertheless. Detlev Schlichter gave a good talk during the Prague Bitcoin conference. He has written about bitcoin before. Scarcity is definitely a requirement for something to have value, thus, it's a requirement for something to be a currency. It is not enough, but it is a requirement. After you find an alternative (if you actually do), isn't a lawsuit against Dwolla applicable, like what TradeHill's doing?I mean, their lack of will to cooperate is causing harm to you and your customers.Doesn't their TOS establish a minimum time for transfers or something that could be used? As this question is normally asked by goldbugs, my answer normally is: "Bitcoin is backed by the same thing that backs gold, that is, nothing." No "base currency" is backed by anything btw. People that say: "I don't accept a money backed by nothing" don't really know what they're talking about. Base money is by definition not backed by anything. I don't see this proposal adding any rule to the protocol. Miners are already free to try not to build on top of any block they don't want to. They should just be conscious that if they implement such thing as a "hard rule", they'll actually be forking the chain. So it'd better be a "soft rule".There's no way to enforce miners to build on top of the longest chain. Adding to what Serith already said, one of the clauses of the contract could contain a limit of how many blocks deep the double-spend is. If it's deeper than X, then the miner would stop trying to counter it.Please keep in mind that the "valid block policy" only concerns blocks with "illegal" contents (double-spends concerning previous blocks, wrong signatures, syntax problems etc). There's no policy concerning which transactions a miner will accept, or on top of which block he'll mine. Splits happen from time to time, that's not working against the network. Plus, why would you generate a block and pay the majority of the miners to overrun it? You'd be throwing away all the reward of the block by doing so.
It's not really "working against the rest of the network". If they're really honest miners, they'll just replace the double-spend they're being payed to avoid. They can pretty well replicate all other honest transactions. At most there'll be a "blip" in the confirmation count of others. Well, in my country, robbers blow ATMs up with dynamite, get as much untainted cash as they manage to, and run away, all that in less than 2 min. AFAIK most of the time they're not caught.So, yeah, you'd better protect yourself against double-spending!  Hello,Can someone please point me to the full criteria set used by Satoshi client to calculate whether a transaction should have a "mandatory" fee?Initially I thought it was only transaction size in bytes and the amounts in outputs ("dust"), as said here: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction_fees#Minimum_transaction_feesBut apparently that's not all. A friend of mine was testing some bitcoins transfers. He received 1 BTC. He tried to send that 1 BTC to another address. It went, no fees required. Then he tried to send it again to another address. The client required him a fee. He canceled, and some days after tried again, and then it passed without requiring fees.So, well, data size and output amounts are not the only criteria... what are the others?Thanks! Banning IP and calling the cops is useless.Of course, for a 0,01BTC tx the damage would be so trivial that the risk is also trivial, you can pretty much take it.There are some use cases where 0-conf would be interesting and the damage caused by a double-spend would not be that trivial though. Take cash ATMs for instance. It would be annoying to wait for confirmation, but the ATM cannot risk a double-spend when giving cash away. Or imagine an ATM like this one: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_to_Go OP, in what is that better than Green Addresses?In both models there's trust in a third party, and Green Addresses are probably cheaper (so far they're free, aren't them?)P2Pool AFAIK requires the miner to have a full client. That's not scalable.I don't know about this memorypool you talk about though. Good point.And good analogy as well. I'm pretty sure Matt Corallo's brain works very well, though.The debate here is more fundamental. Some people are all angry with SatoshiDice because they've finally increased Bitcoin's transaction volume, making it harder for people that do not have to store and validate  the blockchain to keep storing and validating the blockchain. They believe it would be nice if such unnecessary and unscalable behavior could go on for longer, and want to punish those that are making this difficult.I don't agree with it, as my messages in this topic make it clear. But my greatest worry here is that such kind of "punishment" should never be part of the protocol. Pool operators and solo-miners are the only ones who should be taking arbitrary decisions concerning which transactions get included or not. End-users should have no say. And, mostly important, the protocol should be neutral. As the "reference implementation", bitciond should remain neutral too.If Matt wants this so badly, then, well, I guess he's skilled enough to make a patch and provide it to those who agree with them. I just sincerely hope such patch doesn't get included in the main branch of bitcoind. (and I'd find it a pity that he stops to work on this much more important branch he's working on, about making the blockchain update process more efficient, to work on a thing like this.. but well, that's his choice) +1 to that also.I feel there's something wrong with the block download process. It seems it does everything too synchronously, but I don't know. That's why I liked to hear that you, Matt Corallo, was working on a patch trying to improve that. This is the way to go. Make the system more efficient, without trying to censor users which are donating more to the network than the average user is. +1. Well said.Pruning, storing the chain in raw format without verifying it, and SPVs, these are the ways to go IMHO. Not trying to "punish" a particular way of doing transactions, specially when the sender of these transactions is paying more than the average bitcoin user pays for them.  What about, instead of releasing a client with built-in transaction fee policy, you release a client where the fee policy can be easily configured in a text file? You make the "default" text file provided with the executable have the same configuration the current embed fee policy has, in order not to change things abruptly.I find it better this way.  They have "no incentive" because they're earning money with SatoshiDice. No harm is being done to the network. Only those that want to store and validate the chain "for nothing" are having to wait a little more to get up to date.That's relative. For example, I honestly think that what SatoshiDice is doing is rather positive to the network security, as they're paying fees for their transactions. What does please me is that they (being a loose term not just for SatoshiDice) choose to implement very simple technologies that hugely increase their donations to Bitcoin as a whole.See how this is relative? Illegitimate implies "cheating". They are not cheating. They are perfectly playing by the rules.You sound like those who are fearful of ASICs.Define "drastic change", or "switch over quickly"...I'm still running my full node on my primitive laptop. And I'll probably remain for a while. I am not sure this migration is going that fast. Bitcoin evolution as a whole is even faster.But they are being payed for it. If what they're earning as fees is not enough, maybe the devs of p2ppool should change the fee policy of the protocol to require an amount in fees that pays off the inclusion of a transaction by the average p2ppool miner.Or perhaps there should be centralized pools operating as nodes in p2ppool, allowing miners not to have the full chain. The advantage of such is that, by operating in p2ppool, the pool operator clearly shows that he's willing to follow p2ppool rules, and thus cannot "go rogue". See? These are your personal preferences.I agree with item 2, but I don't want to see a "network rule" of some kind forcing people to do so.The protocol should be agnostic. Didn't understand this.It doesn't make sense punishing someone for using the same address multiple times. If you're a solo miner or pool operator and want to apply this rule to your blocks, be my guest. But as a network policy, it doesn't make sense. You're just picking on a particular way of spending bitcoins that you consider "braindead" and trying to punish people who don't do as you like.bitcoind should not contain personal preferences like that.I don't see a problem in forcing fees per se, I just don't like that it's implemented in bitcoind. A particular fee policy should not be a "implementation reference". At most, it should be configurable.Please, of course is legit. They're not attacking the network, nor trying to cheat, double-spend, >50% or anything. They're just spending money in a way that's bothering you and making it harder for non-miners to do what they don't need to do (have a full node running).They are paying for it. I repeat: end-users do not need to run full nodes. Only solo-miners and pool operators need. They are the only ones who should care about SatoshiDice load of transactions, and apply their arbitrary rules if they feel like.If an user which is not solo-mining nor operating a pool is using a full node, that's his choice. His choosing to dedicate his resources to the network, charitably. He'll handle the load in exchange of no monetary incentive. He should know all that.Wanting to embed such an arbitrary rule in the reference implementation is really not appropriate. The Bitcoin protocol per se should be totally agnostic of whether people use multiple addresses or the same address every time. Err... for the reason of punishing flooders? If you're relaying the DoS you're a flooder yourself too.But then the flooder just generates more addresses. What's the point?But it is avoiding these "trivial DDoS" I'm talking about. But doing so via download limits and all, not via fee policy.Regardless, they're making a legit use of the technology, not a DoS attack. Specially if they're paying for it. There's nothing "official" in Bitcoin, and the fact that you think there is shows an understanding issue.Saying that bitcoin-qt is the "official Bitcoin client" is like saying Microsoft Outlook is the "official POP3 client" or that Firefox is the "official HTTP client".Granted, it is the "reference implementation", the only one so far which fully implements the protocol, and as consequence, the one which actually defines it. That's different from being "official" though.Network security is much more related to the amount of computing power behind mining than the amount of full nodes in the network.It's unlikely that someone manages to DDoS or hack all full nodes at the same time, even if only solo-miners and pool operators were running full nodes.And, please, understand: if bitcoin succeeds, it is just a matter of time until this happens (few full nodes). If that really makes Bitcoin less secure as you say, then you may say Bitcoin is not secure by design. If it's just a "flood defense" then I'm fine with it, as long as it is configurable. Like, in my config file, I add that a node sending >10tps during >3s is flooding, so I stop downloading some or all of his tx.Such a thing could finally allow the devs to drop the hardcoded transaction fee policy, which should never have existed IMHO.Now, where I strongly disagree with you, is that SatoshiDice is flooding the network. It is not. Their transactions are legit. Something should be considered DoS if that's the sole goal of it. Like, someone creating as many transactions to self as he manages and broadcasting them all, only to flood the network. That's bad behavior.SatoshiDice is not flooding and is legitimately paying for his transactions. Transactions paying something above a certain low limit in fees should never be considered DoS - and this limit should also be configurable. Please, really please don't make that a rule embedded in bitcoind.Really? CPU time checking signatures is slower than the database indexation? I always thought it was the other way around. At least my laptop seems to access the disk like crazy when it's getting up to date... I'll check CPU usage.By the way, I heard you were working on a patch to make the chain update more asynchronous, and thus faster, and that you were obtaining good results. Is that so? Miners/pool operators may prioritize whatever they want.It is a horrible idea if done by the developers of bitcoind. I'm not comfortable even with the hardcoded fee policy left by Satoshi.What might be acceptable at "bitcoind level" are configurations. Like, a file where you specify fee policy parameters, if you're a solo-miner/pool operator."Normal" users should not be using bitcon-qt. You're being too harsh on SatoshiDice. AFAIK, they're paying fees for every transaction they send. In the end, they're contributing to the network security by financing miners. The fact that non-miners are having problems to follow the chain progress is less relevant IMHO, as that will necessarily be the situation in the future if bitcoin "succeeds".I'd argue they're doing more good than damage with all these paying transactions. They're actually being generous, because if they were to use send-many and reduce their number of transactions, they'd be paying less fees to miners. (and about having a balance, I think they've been so successful precisely because they don't require you to have an account).And if miners/pools are still accepting free transactions, it just means they don't give a damn to the overhead. (at least not yet). I'm not even sure developers themselves should worry with this. This is a problem to pool operators mainly. It's up to them to come out with a solution, or eventually finance one by offering bounties.I find "securing your private key(s)" a much more urgent matter than this. What a drama, come on...This will not kill bitcoin. Even without pruning, professional pool operators should be able to handle much more traffic than this. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ScalabilityIt seems you people are thinking "ordinary users" should be full nodes. That's not the case. Only solo-miners and pool operators have such need.But anyway, since that's what being debated here, I always wondered if there couldn't be a "relay mode". Something lighter than the full mode of bitcoin-qt, but heavier than the lightweight mode of BitcoinJ.You store the whole blockchain, but in its raw format. You only validate its headers, not its transactions. You index only the transactions that concern you, plus a simple index to locate the blocks in the big raw file. You relay everything as a full node would.The greatest charge that a full node imposes today is the indexation of the database. Storing in raw format would allow those that want to contribute their nodes as relays (as me and probably you) to keep doing it for a longer time, I guess.But, honestly, I'm not even sure we should encourage this. For it to scale, the bitcoin network will have to change to a network where only some full nodes exists and all the others connect to them as lightweight nodes. So maybe SatoshiDice is just encouraging us to take this step. 
They don't really have to, AFAIK.It's up to miners to do something, if they want to do something. Maybe they can handle the volume and are happy with the fees.EDIT: And when I say miners I mean solo-miners and pool operators, the only ones who really need the entire blockchain to operate. I LOVE BITCOIN!18rZYyWcafwD86xvLrfuxWG5xEMMWUtVkL(and want to see how this novela ends...  ) It is related. Keynesians practice economic wrongly. They try to use the empirical method, which doesn't work for social sciences as you simply cannot repeat experiments at will, much less isolate all the variables.The empirical method is the one used in Physics, Chemistry etc.The aprioristic method is the one used in Economics, Mathematics... But I don't have to show you anything in nature for it to be true.... A triangle has such properties a priori. That's exactly why you should not always use empiricism as a way to acquire knowledge. "Measuring and testing independently at anytime" is the empiricist way of acquiring knowledge, which doesn't fit neither to Math, nor to any social science.The Pythagoras equation holds true for any triangle, even if you're not capable of finding an object with triangular form in nature.Are you trying to argue that the equation is not true because you've never seen a natural object of triangular shape? Mathematics is a science. It's not (only) a descriptive language. Math allows us to obtain true knowledge, not only talk about it. Ex: If two items of the same nature are put together with another two items of the same nature, you'll have four items of that nature (2+2=4). That's not a product of "imaginations", it's a true fact. You're basically calling mathematics entirely a "hypothesis". That's nonsense. Logical deduction on top of axioms can produce valid scientific theories, and in some situations this method is much more reliable than trying to conduct repeatable experiments with all the variables properly isolated (the "empirical" way). Social sciences are an example: experiments can't be repeated at will, and it's impossible to even distinguish all variables, let aside isolate them. I understand that's not needed to.But this is great news. I've always thought that running bitcoin behind Tor should be a "recommended practice", pretty much like using different address for each transaction. The only problem was that the more people following such practice, the less listening nodes we'd get.Not a problem anymore with this patch you talk about.I hope this patched is merged in the main version soon. By the way, I've never created a Tor hidden service. Is is something simple? And by simple, I mean something that an average computer user could do, like, is there a wizard install and all? If you have to go though text files, most people would just give up.If there's such a thing, it would be a good idea to start releasing a bitcoin+Tor* bundle that configures everything and launches your bitcoin already behind a hidden service.* I say Tor but I guess it could be I2P too... whichever is easier. If that was the case, they shouldn't have sworn the money was on its way for weeks/months.And "stolen bitcoins" alone wouldn't trigger an AML investigation on the bank side. Something more would be necessary.Anyways, it's pointless to discuss this here.The best option is trying to stay away from centralized exchanges, if possible. That's what I'd like to know too. WME himself has already made the details public. So I guess he wouldn't mind giving authorization to make the receipt public as well. Unfortunately software alone will never be secure enough to protect the private keys of non-tech people. No matter how much you invest in your software, it cannot be more secure than the environment it runs at. And if the environment is "generic", it is not secure.A dedicated device is needed for security purposes.That said, I also wonder if people would like to carry another device around. Maybe for daily spends, smartphone apps are the way to go. Devices like this would be kept home, to access your savings account.Don't know, let's see how it goes. You're assuming there's an official AML investigation on the way. Posting the receipts would just prove they send the money which is now stuck at the bank, for whatever reasons. In no way that states there's an AML investigation on the way.I really doubt that's illegal.Please, just blur the other names.You're probably right on that one.The thing is, OP being a thief or not, I'm very uneasy with a btc exchange "playing police", tainting coins and all that. If CryptoXChange would show us the bank is at fault here for not sending the wires, we could at least rule that out. Wire requests normally produce receipts too.Posting the receipts would prove CryptoXChange was telling the truth about having submitted the wires. And I can't believe that's illegal... You know this for a fact or you're supposing?I have a hard time believing the bank would be aware of "stolen bitcoins". Red flags would only be raised on their end if perhaps the account the wire was going to was "marked" somehow.And if that was the case, I guess CryptoXChange could just say that and relief the burden of his shoulders ("it's the bank, not us! here's proof.."). Care to show what's not shown?Have you received a court order or a police order telling you to seize this money or freeze this account?And why telling him that the money's on the way if it isn't? The same way he's refusing to send you notarized documents, it seems by the pictures you've avoided sending him wire receipts. That's probably the best way out of it. Red Emerald, you mean that with this patch bitcoin clients are able to send their .onion (or eventually another darknet) URL to other bitcoin nodes in the discovery process?The bitcoin network may now operate inside a darknet if everybody wants to? I understood that. "Them" in my phrase is PayPal. Theoretically possible, but very unlikely. Hard to do, and, why would the attacker cherry-pick these 5 transactions?Jeremy, if the backup thing doesn't work, would you mind adding some trusted peers in your list manually?https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Fallback_Nodes No, I believe the wallet.dat also contains transactions stored. If you use the same it won't work.
The backup you used was done after the 5 bogus transactions. For that to work, you'd need to find a backup which was done before the bogus transactions, but which happens to contains all your private keys. Seeing the number of transactions you make, that might be difficult.  You'll probably have to resort to manually deleting the transactions...To the devs: isn't this a bug in the Satoshi client? Shouldn't the client try to rebroadcast unconfirmed transactions once in a while? If it does rebroadcast, just not fast enough for Jeremy's needs, then isn't this an enhancement issue that should be logged anyway? (allowing the user to configure the rebroadcasting periods, and/or adding a command line switch (perhaps even GUI) to manually force the rebroadcast...)Or is there something peculiar with those transactions that make them be refused by everyone every time they are sent? I'm ruling out voluntary double-spends. (if it's an involuntary one, it's possibly an even more serious issue...) I thought these transactions were initiated by Jeremy's wallet...If they are incoming transactions then the problem is not with him, but with those trying to send the money. If the backup contains all the private keys, a rescan should be enough for it to see transactions that were confirmed. It will see them in the chain.What's important is that the backup contain all private keys, but not all transactions. Keep a copy of your current wallet before doing this, of course. Instead of dropping them completely, have you tried offering a more competitive price for bitcoin purchases?http://www.bitcoinmoney.com/post/23551708288/discount-for-cashMaybe if customers see they have a financial advantage in using bitcoin, they'll at least be motivated to learn about it. Plus, they should allow users to set limit to themselves.Like a preferences page where I set maximum withdraw amounts per day and per week to myself. If I want to change these preferences by increasing the amounts, the change will only take effect like 48 hours later. And every change in these preferences are notified by e-mail, as every withdraw of any amount.This way losses can be limited in cases such as this. Maybe???https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwoqzb5R6vw+1Plus, you may ignore these posters. If I understood this piece correctly, you're claiming that you have skype logs in which CryptoXChange says that your wires are on the way, while they are not.If that's true, it would be shameful to CryptoXChange - even if WME is indeed a scammer, there's no reason for CryptoXChange to lie.I find it more likely that you just didn't understand their English correctly. Check again. Somebody who doesn't consider 100K USD an amazing amount shouldn't have troubles finding a good English speaker to help. (and that includes helping with your writings here)Now, WME, if what you say is true and you legitimately own this money, you should already be doing what Mathew said above: sue CryptoXChange. Demand them the money, plus indemnities for the time loss and other problems you might have had due to this. It should be easy to win such lawsuit if your claim is legit.But you have to go to court, not to bitcointalk.org. Not only people here cannot help you, as they have strong reasons not to trust you. +1 A chart like this could be on bitcoin.org. No, we don't. If in the debt contract it is written that only bitcoins are accepted as payment, that clause is legally void: the debtor may still pay with legal tender if so he wishes.And US legal tender laws are less authoritarian than many others, if that's the only thing they force. In many countries, if you're selling anything, it must be against the official currency. In Brazil for instance, not only you cannot refuse the official currency if you're selling something, but you're also forced to provide change to the buyer if he throws a large denomination bill at you. Not to mention all banking rules. Sometimes it seems authoritarian people just don't want to think for a few seconds... How about specifying the means of payment in the contract? Didn't cross your mind? Thanks Pieter Wuille for the clarification. I'm not really willing to expose my IP like that. But anyway, I don't think it's a bandwidth issue. Wow... that's the time my laptop takes to update like, a single week of blocks. And I'm using 6.2. I can't explain it, but I suspect that the whole process is done in a synchronous way. Like:Download a block (bandwidth usage)Verify its validity (CPU intensive, plus indexed queries)Insert the block in the DB - indexation (IO intensive, and probably O(log) on the index size, or perhaps even O(n), don't know)Proceed to next blockIf that's the case, there's probably room for some optimization by rendering this process asynchronous and making bulk inserts in the DB. A thread would go downloading blocks, in a torrent fashion. Another thread would go behind it verifying the blocks. And finally a third thread would insert the verified data in bulks on the database. Validated blocks should be kept in a memory index while they are not yet inserted, so that the verifying thread can query them too.Well, this is all speculation of mine... can someone confirm how is the block download done? I tend to agree with both of you. I also have a strong impression that WME is the one to blame here, simply because I don't think CryptoXChange would risk their reputation by "playing police".  The amount also makes it suspicious.But, honestly, don't you think the burden of prove belongs to CryptoXChange in this case? WME has already said they are denying the withdraw, while he has already submitted the necessary docs - according to his words.Perhaps the docs were an obvious forgery, perhaps CryptoXChange has strong evidence that WME is a thief, or perhaps they even have a court order restraining them from releasing the money.But, by the innocence presumption principle, I'd say the burden of proof is on the exchange, not on the guy with his account frozen...Anyway... these forums aren't a court either. CryptoXChange doesn't have an obligation to justify his actions here. It just might improve their already good reputation if they did, I believe. What I can understand from this topic is:WME deposited a large sum of coins in CryptoXChange, sold them and tried to cash out the amount in USD (~100k according to him)CryptoXChange froze his account and is denying withdraw, apparently, according to WME words, because those coins were stolen. I suspect CryptoXChange suspects WME is a thief.Could WME and CryptoXChange confirm or deny my interpretation above? Not for me...When I start my 0.6.2 client after a single day off, the time to synchronize is considerable. The disk works frenetically.I suspect indexation time is the issue here... does anyone know how the blockchain index is structured? If it is just a sorted disk array for example, inserting anything would be linear on the amount of data already there.Plus, I believe it would help to do bulk inserts, asynchronously, if that's not done already. This would allow the download+verification to continue while indexation is processing a previous bulk. I have the impression that the whole process is synchronous (download a block, verify it, insert in BD, download next block, verify it, insert and so on...). If that's the case, it could be optimized. Not saying it's easy, but it's possible. It's not the download itself that takes time. It's processing and indexing the downloaded raw data.IMHO it's IO time the great bottleneck concerning blockchain update. At least my laptop disk makes a lot of noise. 
That's nice in some contexts (not only the one of this topic), but they're too expensive right now to be given away at large quantities... perhaps casacius should start doing some 100 and 50 mBTC coins  (or lower, if viable)  A hot wallet cannot be encrypted while the system is running, by definition.Their problem was in part having too much money in the hot wallet, but mainly, using an unsafe method to share the root password of their server containing the hot wallet. You can. You always could, actually. The possibility was always there, with script. It's just that there's no client that easily allows you to create your transaction with the appropriate script. You'll need to build it yourself, what's complicated. It's an usefulness in itself. (and why the yelling? getting stressed so easily?)If you convince other people it's a good store of value, it might. That's not easy at all, though.By the way, if at least you value your shit sword, then it already has value - to you, at least.If you can still trade them for currency at least, it can be used as a store of value.It's true that if there really isn't any function at all to something, then it will not have value.The only thing I'm trying to say is that this claim that bitcoin needs to be used in commerce (trading it for goods and services) to have value is false. It doesn't need to, although it helps a lot to have such utility.Because prices change?Prices are a function of scarcity and demand. A particular usefulness of a scarce resource won't necessarily translate into demand until this usefulness is perceived and desired by people.Agreed.That's true for absolutely everything which has value. There's no such a thing as "inherent value". Thank you, Maged, for taking this position. It's harder and harder to find people who don't try to shut up those who annoy them.This topic reminds me of this great video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwoqzb5R6vw It's right in the text of mine you just quoted: store of value.The "clones" haven't managed to convince enough people that they are a good store of value. But, they've convinced a few, that's why they have some value instead of no value at all.They are not actual clones. An identical clone would be a "fake bitcoin", which is impossible. They are different things, different "coins". The original bitcoins remain scarce, no matter how much equivalent implementations are done. +1 Because you may want it now.The same question could apply to any high tech product. Why buy a computer if you know that in two years the same computer will be much cheaper, or with the same amount you'll be able to afford something better? And the answer again is the same: because you want the computer now. Being a "medium of exchange" is not the only utility of bitcoin. All "sound moneys" are also useful to store value. And for that, no commerce other than the exchange for other currencies needs to exist. This is very questionable. See http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/2011/12/20/researchers-trumpet-another-flawed-fukushima-death-study/ Economic growth, or improvements in "economic efficiency" is, by definition, a better usage of scarce resources in the goal of attending agents (= those who "act") desires.It is, though, by definition, connected to "social and environmental good", as long as you don't consider that "environmental good" = human sacrifice to the "benefit" of other species (how do you even define what's beneficial to species who can't even express their opinions is an open question...) . If environmental good is the better usage of scarce resources to attend mankind's needs/wishes, then that's precisely what economic growth means too.Err, such tax was imposed by a democratically elected government. The same government which created central banking, which inflated the money supply creating cheap credit and malinvestments all over, and which decided that some companies are "too big to fail" and rescued them with money taken from society.These distributions of wealth from large and disperse groups to small and organized groups are inherent to governments, particularly democratic ones. Patri Friedman explains it in 2 minutes: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mgJ644LPL6gWell, it will be associated, and not just "remotely".I suggest you learn more why there's nothing wrong with margin trading and where the actual problems are, or you'll end up "unembracing" bitcoin soon, unfortunately... Is not the "reason", it's the "talent/ability/knowledge/etc". A good speculator, i.e., one that guesses right, will help stabilize the price. A bad speculator (one that guesses wrong), will provoke the opposite effect. Free markets reward the former with profits and punish the latter with losses. Relax. There are others with strong economic basis that either are part of the team, or follow it closely. Theymos and Stefan Thomas are two names that I remember by heart, and probably there are others.No developer in the team would be able to change the economic basis of bitcoin "at will", without provoking lots of noise at least. You're wrong. You did create a lot of value with your platform, that's why you had good profits and a good buyer. It is not zero-sum.It's a pity that you will not keep using your talents in the bitcoin economy, but I wish you the best. I believe you'll keep creating value, wherever you decide to work. Good luck! That's a damn big IF. In this reasoning you're implying that the value of bitcoin will, in average, double at each 4 years, so that the block reward inflation keeps having the same value.That sounds too much optimistic to me. Ad-hoc networks cannot be controlled by authorities. The nodes themselves are the routers. The only way they could control such a thing would be to physically search each node, seize them and punish their operators somehow. That would be much more expensive than keeping a firewall, and would definitely increase the level of "tension" between the Chinese government and its subjects.But the thing is, current technology and its dissemination is many years away from being able of support such a thing. We cannot rely on ad-hoc networks. It is not necessary (to be full node while being p2p) and I definitely wouldn't count on forming an ad-hoc network. he, I guess I just described how a light weighted p2p client like BitcoinJ works. And plus, it doesn't rely on a single server that can be easily blocked by the Great Firewall.Yeah, the more I think about it, the more I conclude that going p2p instead of client-server is imperative here. It's perfectly possible to do it "lightweight" to the point that even a mobile phone can handle. A tablet should take it easily. Oh, OK, but I was thinking about the web app. That uses what?
All implementations I've seen had a privacy downside. The server knows everything that goes in and out of your wallet.I'm thinking, that could be avoided though.Some steps that could be implemented so that the server cannot see the transactions of its clients:First of all, the server must not have access neither to the private, nor to the public keys of its clients.At each new block, the server sends it to the client, so that it can verify if it received anything.Alternatively, to decrease bandwidth usage, if the block has a large number of outputs (> 500?), the server can send only the output list of each block. If the client has an address on such list, it requests the entire block. The server will not be able to infer which addresses belong to the client if the list is large enough, and if people don't reuse their addresses muchIt still possible to the server to log the outgoing transactions though. Maybe that could be avoided by requesting a list of bitcoin nodes to the server, and sending the transaction to these nodes directly instead of routing it through the server. But then these nodes could see the client's IP, if it doesn't use Tor or something else.I wonder... is this the way blockchain.info Alerts Disabled mode works? You don't need to give away your private keys. But the transaction history will be known by the server, unless you use their Alerts Disabled mode, but then I don't know how would your local software know how much money you've got.Sure? I thought it was BitconJS, the javascript implementation. Bounty time?I'm a Java developer, perhaps besides pledging I may also help with some little stuff that doesn't require deep knowledge of the code to be done quickly. I don't have much free time though, unfortunately. BitcoinJ doesn't need a server. For Chinese people in particular, I guess not having all their transaction log stored in a particular place is a must. This is great!For Android tablets, the BitcoinJ based application is probably the way to go. It doesn't store the entire blockchain, only what concerns its own wallet. Eventually the protocol could be evolved so that it doesn't even need to download entire blocks, only the chunks which contain the transactions it needs to know about. Private keys are stored locally, no server needed.But I guess some security features should be implemented before. Last time I've checked, I couldn't even access the wallet file in my android phone to back it up. Backups and encrypted wallets at least are a must. And even that is still vulnerable to malware, unfortunately. Maybe they should also consider making an agreement with some backup service and ship the table with their app included, like Wuala for example, which encrypts everything locally before sending the files to their servers.We should probably organize bounties to the development of such needed features. J'ai deux billets pour le concert de Metallica à ce weekend au stade de France.À cause des raisons personnelles je ne pourrais pas y être, donc je met ces billets à vente.16 BTC ou 65 chaque. C'est moins cher que ce que j'ai payé. Les billets sont pour la catégorie 3: http://partenaires.ticketnet.fr/assets/ctx/ticketnet-1/static/images/plans/m_251259.gifLes billets se trouvent à Paris, avec un ami à moi qui y habite et qui va au concert. Je vous met en contact si vous lachetez.Si vous êtes intéressé, contactez-moi vite, vu que le concert est ce samedi!Merci,Tiago. But he does. I remember seeing a video of RP saying something as "you're stealing from the poor and the middle class".Just one thing though: money printing is not "inherently" unfair. It's not unfair if it's voluntary, like gold and bitcoin mining. The actual unfairness is money monopoly. The reference implementation (Satoshi client) should definitively not link to any centralized source of information, specially for an unnecessary future.And even the suggestion above of letting the user specify the exchange source, I don't know... IMHO, the developers of the main client should focus on bitcoind and the protocol itself, i.e., "core development". User-features like that would be better left for the developers of fancy clients like Armory or Multibit... Maybe even the development of the QT GUI should be completely decorrelated from the reference implementation (bitcoind), and become a client of its own... the "Satoshi client" would be only bitcoind, no GUI, so to avoid the development of one thing to interfere with the development of the other. +1I would only call scammer someone that deliberately tries to defraud someone else. Tradehill got screwed by Dwolla and the state/banks. He didn't defraud anyone.He has done a good service to the bitcoin community AFAIK. The simple fact that he's trying to honor his debts also show he's an honest person.I understand it's not nice at all to have your money stuck somewhere, but compared to what Jared lost, this "time lost" of yours is not that significant, IMHO. As the subsidy halves each ~4 years, for your assumption to hold the price of one bitcoin would have to double every 4 years. I would love it, but I don't believe we can expect it to happen "forever".  I think he means "lawyer"... or maybe not. If they really intended to make something as anonymous as cash, they could have used a blinded signature algorithm like what's done in Open Transactions. Actually, they could become an Open Transaction issuer and server. That would be more anonymous than Bitcoin.I'm not sure what they want, exactly. How would that scale? I suppose these chips have very limited memory, they can't keep such a record.The system described by Death&Taxes really need a way to detect double-spends (done by someone who manage to access the private key of a chip), or it risks failing hard. And if this is tied to the CAD as I understand, potential hyperinflation of the Canadian currency could follow. I suppose they would "shut down MintChip" before such thing happens, but I can't see how you do it without damaging all legitimate owners of MintChips.The Royal Canadian Mint better know what they are doing.... so far, to me, it seems they are taking a huge risk. A wiki contém informações muito mais "fundamentadas e concretas" do que qualquer site de notícias. Quem escreve na bitcoin.it entende muito mais sobre bitcoins do que quem escreve na The Economist. Essa rejeição a user a wiki como fonte é bobagem. Você sempre pode datar suas referências se tem receio de que a página mude no futuro e não corresponda mais ao que você usou como base (toda wiki preserva seu histórico).Há também alguns papers científicos que citam bitcoins, mas normalmente tratando de outros assuntos. Citar papers científicos numa monografia é sempre uma boa.E, claro, como já disseram, você não pode deixar de citar o paper original do Satoshi (e desencana, você não vai ter resposta dele, ele sumiu). <off-topic>There have been historical examples of decentralized law and justice, and there are modern authors who write about how it could apply to nowadays societies.</off-topic>OP, great initiative. I wish you success, and hope you create an example for other institutions of the same kind worldwide. I'm sincerely impressed by your good behavior here. Congratulations.Can't you try to sue Linode or something? This is mainly their fault. I wouldn't be surprised at all if the attacker is a rogue employee of theirs. It's up to the miners*. But, afaik, the software provided by bitcoin.org enforces an arbitrary fee policy in order to counter spam, instead of raising spam flags based on data transfer rate - I guess it was easier to implement this way and nobody volunteered to improve it yet. As most miners use the software provided by bitcoin.org, they end up following this fee policy too. So, if you don't respect it, there's a high chance you won't get your transaction included.*Obviously, it's up to them if transactions are valid. A block containing an invalid transaction is not accepted by the network. Example of invalid tx are double-spends, wrong signatures etc Paying VAT for every bitcoin transaction is a show stopper. I hope you manage to find good workarounds to this. This sounds really ambitious.Why are you focused only on cargo transportation? Can't the same technology eventually transport passengers? If you are able to build truck-sized "trains", can't you make the equivalent of buses as well?I wonder how smaller can you get... it would be awesome if one day our ordinary family cars were able to hop on some rails and run on super-speeds.  (btw, google tells me 350mph ~ 563kph... that's fucking fast! I don't think there's any commercial train in the world running at such speed, is there?) Wait...So, according to you, being the victim of a crime depends on whether you were engaging in business? If my personal car gets stolen, I'm a victim, but if it's my function car while I'm working, I'm responsible for being robbed? If a woman is raped, she's a victim, unless it was a prostitute during her business, then she's responsible for being raped?Please. Of course people would better be prudent and protect themselves from criminals, but your notion of ethics is completely twisted if you really believe "business are not victims". Being the victim or the responsible of a crime has absolutely nothing to do with whether you were engaging in business, pleasure or whatever.It's not "my website". But it is a good example. Why should they even care about spending money on a high schooler to have a decent site? All they want is to deliver sandwiches and meals. The only reason they've probably done a site at all was because they work in a "geek area", and have many clients that prefer ordering by clicking instead of using the phone.They don't really care about having a good, secure site, and it's fine enough for them, as long as they keep delivering good meals at an affordable price.But that's only because they don't accept bitcoin (or any other digital means of payment, for that matter). If they ever consider the possibility, their site will be completely rapped by the crooks OP talks about. So, summarizing, OP has a point. The high level of "cyberviolence" we are submitted to (and also the fact we can't even try to punish these hackers as we may do with meatspace criminals) makes life harder for honest people, unfortunately.But maybe a better comparison would be to compare the level of security needed to safely maintain a bitcoin wallet in a site, and the level of security needed to safely store credit card numbers. I have no idea which kind of site is more attacked.
Wait, it's the victims fault if s/he is attacked?OP is right, this does create a higher barrier for establishing a bitcoin business. It's like establishing a brick and mortar business in a violent neighborhood: you'll have to invest more in security, and even that might not be enough. Such costs and risks might be prohibitive to some. Even if they're not prohibitive, they'll have to be accounted for in the price of whatever product or service they sell.Sometimes you can. The local restaurant website where I often order my meals is quite lame. I know, for ex., that they don't hash passwords, it's stored as clear text. There are probably other security vulnerabilities. Judging by the web design, they probably had a very limited budget for building that site. If they had to have the level of security a site needs to have to exist safely in the bitcoin world, maybe they wouldn't even have a site at all, or their meals would be more expensive just to account for that. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/mercado/1052730-cibercrime-atinge-32-das-empresas-no-pais-diz-pesquisa.shtmlSó um pequeno alerta aos que pensam em desenvolver negócios relacionados a bitcoin: não estejam entre esses 51% que não adotam devidos procedimentos de segurança, lembrem-se que transferências bitcoins são irreversíveis! You're wrong there, sound economics can prove things, just like math. And sound economics shouldn't even use statistics as a basis for knowledge building, that's why I made the distinction about "empirical economics" (which I consider flawed, for the same reasons you point) and "aprioristic economics".Keynesianism is not sound economics, it's done empirically. That's how mathematics itself is done... you don't consider Mathematics to be a science?EDIT: Correcting myself, mathematics (and sound economics) derive results from a set of axioms, not assumptions, it is not the same thing. hehe, yeah. Researches often desperately need to publish. There are two ways of doing economics. Empirically, like physics, or aprioristically, like math. I agree that it is not scientific to do economics empirically, because you simply cannot isolate all the buzillions variables involved, nor repeat your experiments enough times to get good samples. They actually can't even experiment.But economics can be done like math, using logically sound constructions on top of axioms. This works much better and it is scientific. Quoting myself: People are already starting to use FPGAs, and maybe one day we'll even see ASICs.Botnets won't have such specialized hardware. Ok, they have free electricity, but they are limited in size.And by the way, in what concerns the bitcoin network, botnets are not a problem. It only becomes a problem if one single botnet is too large and manages to get >50%.PS: I confess I did not read the paper so sorry if I'm saying something which is already addressed by it. Have you seen this?http://it.slashdot.org/story/12/02/14/2322213/998-security-for-real-world-public-keysThankfully to us Satoshi did not choose RSA for the private/public key algorithm of bitcoin!This is important nevertheless. Ok, 2 per thousand is statistically very low, but the fact that all these vulnerable keys can be gathered by any skilled enough attacker is quite troubling.I wonder how fast would the bitcoin development team be able to work out an algorithm migration if a similarly dangerous vulnerability were to be found on ECDSA or SHA-256 (these are the algorithms used for public/private key and hashing in bitcoin, respectively, right?) SSL wouldn't be of any help. Hashing in the client and authenticating the hash == storing passwords in clear text.To be honest, it is a little less bad than storing clear passwords because at least a leak wouldn't allow an attacker to screw users who use the same password on different sites. But in what concerns your server, it is the same. If you're sending the hash to the server for authentication, hashing has no point: if your database leaks, anybody in possession of the leak can authenticate himself as any of your users. Remember the client is in control of whatever he sends to your server. He doesn't need to execute the javascript you send him, he can forge any requests as he pleases.The whole point of hashing a password instead of storing it in clear text is to prevent issues in case of a database leak. The hashing operation must be done in the server. I'm not disputing that. But it seems the exploit allowed the retrieval of clear text passwords. If they are not stored in clear text, how would that be possible?But wait, you're saying that there's a javascript performing the hash on the client? That's pretty much the equivalent of storing them as clear text. What you're saying doesn't make much sense to me.If the passwords were hashed (even unsalted MD5), how could an attacker create a clear text column with everybody's password? At most he would get some through rainbow tables, but not all.Unless the attacker actually manage to inject code into your server. That would be a more serious flaw, not just a password leak. And still, he would only be able to get the clear version of each password after everybody logs in. I'd say that unfortunately many software developers in general do not follow important security practices. The main difference with this community is that there is a considerable amount of people capable of exploiting such vulnerabilities. And, well, most of the time there's money involved, not only ordinary data.Congratulations for both chsx3 and theymos for the honest behavior. So some pools "pay in advance". That would require them to have some "invested capital". And such money can be stolen, as we've seen here. In such event, unless the pool operator eats the loss himself, he will have to pass it to the miners.Honestly, I find it quite absurd accepting higher risks only for not having to wait one single day for maturation. But anyway... it's your money, do as you please. It doesn't make sense. You'll have to wait anyway. Either you wait with the money in your wallet, or you wait with it in the wallet of the pool operator. I find the former more secure.It's true that pool operators could also be eWallets, protecting the coins of miners that do not feel safe to do it themselves. But I assume miners to be fairly technical people who don' t really need an eWallet. Well, if they are sending frequent transactions with all these .000004 spends, it would be the same, wouldn't it?Otherwise, if they don't want to create huge transactions so frequently, they can aggregate. At each block they pay 10% of their miners, for ex. The math might get complicated, but it should be possible. But why was the pool operator even keeping the miners reward? Couldn't he pay his miners immediately from the generation transaction, with a send to many?...Before posting the question I decided to take a look in the blockchain.info... and even deepbit and Slush are attributing the generation coins to a single address, possibly to transfer them after the 120 blocks maturation period. Why? This is risky... Just send them immediately to the miners. It can also be the other way around. Miners publicly offer to "support" transactions which contain a minimum amount of fee.I like where this is going. It seems a cheaper alternative to the "expensive green address" proposal I've seen before, and it is decentralized too. Pool operators can embed signatures in their blocks if they want.It would be more complicated to organize such scheme on P2Pool though...
And if this works out, it pretty much solves the tragedy of the commons scenario for transaction fees. People with interest in not having their transactions double spent could buy such form of insurance.The question that stays in the air is whether the risk of suffering a double-spend is high enough to motivate people to buy such insurances. But I guess that the answer to that is that, if the risk is not the high, maybe there's not so much need for mining power either. Safer is not always better, you have to take the costs into account. Wow... If that's the case, frankly, it's awful. How come people didn't think that they would run out of coins when they implemented this?It seems like one of those "temporary fixes to be improved later", something that should not be present on important protocols... If I understood correctly, namecoin inflation never stops. It's a constant, linear growth. So, there will always be new coins.The greatest problem I see is that this way it seems the domain growth rate is also linear. If one day it gets popular and goes viral, exponential domain growth will not be possible. Namecoin domains will become too expensive, people will give up, and that will slow down adoption to a linear growth as well, what would be a pity.On the other hand, making domain growth exponential might be too much.I wonder how to match domain growth with the demand for new domain names...PS: I don't understand much about namecoin, so I might be saying bullshit. If he's mining his own "garbage blocks", adding mandatory transaction fees is pointless then, as he can always pay high fees to himself.A miner producing garbage blocks is attempting to freeze the network. That's not a profitable attack, and difficult to perform (requires more processing power than the honest nodes). It's much more serious than spamming if done successfully though. Search for "unfreezable blockchain" if you want an interesting topic about this matter, with possible solutions on how to decrease the impact of such an attack. If you have something important to say and you think it should be on another section, then you may request whitelisting.Otherwise, yeah, you'll need to wait. No, RPC is there to allow control of bitcoind by other programs. Like, imagine you have a website that needs to perform payments automatically. Your web server contacts bitcoind and requests the payment. If authorized, bitcoind performs the payment. It doesn't matter if the keys are encrypted or not, as it is the bitcoin software itself that's signing and sending the transaction. It can decrypt the keys if needed.The hacker did not steal a private key. It managed to access bitcoind and control it, requesting the payment thought the RPC interface. Bitcoind treated it as a legitimate request.Normally this control interface should not be publicly accessible, but in this particular case it was.Do you see the difference? No, he said on OP, open RPC (well, maybe the wallet was unencrypted too, but it doesn't matter, that's not how it was stolen). Summarizing, it is as if his bitcoind node was accessible by anyone on the internet that happened to know his password, and apparently the password wasn't that strong since it was bruteforced. The attacker just requested the victim's bitcoind to send him money, and it sent.The interesting part is for such a theft to happen, the thief needed to know that there was an accessible bitcoind on that IP. So, either it is someone close to OP who's stealing him, or there are hackers with crawlers searching for such vulnerable nodes. The latter sounds quite possible, what would mean people using bitcoind RPC should really pay attention to their access rules. Please, don't block spam with mandatory transaction fees, as it was done in bitcoin.Nodes should not relay transactions from a peer that is sending spam. It shouldn't be too difficult to make some basic heuristics (anything above a certain rate gets tagged as spam).Fee policies should be totally open for miners to implement them as they want. Good summary.DeathAndTaxes, understand that I don't mean that a double-spender with 51% would be something "easy to deal with". I just say that I find a complete freeze of all transactions a worse thing.In your last post, you talk about using Bitcoinica and MtGox. Well, both services would be completely unavailable if the network is frozen. While in a double-spender case, they would be in danger, but they might remain operating, with much more care probably (asking identifications etc). I know. I just said that it would be harder to remain anonymous after doing that many trades, in comparison to just spamming garbage blocks behind many proxies.Only the attacker would have that ability. Today, everyone buying anything in the internet with a credit card has the ability to chargeback. People would have to deal in bitcoins as they deal with credit cards or paypal today, while the blacklist of the attacker's addresses grows and his incentive to keep the attack decreases. Tor only grants you cyberspace anonymity. Again, never forget we are all bound to what happens in meatspace.If the attacker is just freezing the network, than OK, his interaction with the physical world is minimum (although it would still be hard to hide such mining farm, the investment in creating it etc)But if he's double-spending, he must be exchanging that stockpile of millions of bitcoins against something else. And that's lots of money and lots of "something else". That's why I believe it would be hard to remain anonymous (I didn't mean to say they would have a hard time to acquire a stockpile of coins, only that it would be hard to remain anonymous while doing it)Possibly. That's why that thread is interesting. I've been reading it yesterday. If it really helps to counter the freezing attack, it could be useful as a partial protection against such "thermonuclear warfare". Just imagine these two situations:Somebody strikes the greatest(s) theft(s) of dollars of all times, and may potentially repeatAll dollar flow in the world is frozen. Everywhere, people just can't transact in dollars anymore.You really think the first thing would be more catastrophic to the dollar?Thefts happen all the time. A double-spender with 51% would be a very dangerous thief. But he would not be jamming the entire economy. A complete freeze is much worse.Yes. By "just freezing", everyone invested in bitcoins would lose everything, not only the sellers of these items.And there are many reactions people may attempt, from blacklisting the addresses of the attacker to using green or "whitelisted" addresses and trust networks. For the freezing attack, the only possible reaction I was aware of would involve a certain degree of centralization, what would create central points of failure precisely when you don't want them. (That's why I'm interested by this blocktree thing.)Oh, and don't forget the attacker would first need to legitimately own those 100K BTCs before double-spending them. It's hard to remain anonymous after doing all these trades.Granted, governments would probably attempt a typical ban before an attack of this kind, and that might have catastrophic effects as you note. I imagine such an attack would only be "propaganda-supportable" once bitcoin is used exclusively by informal markets.Try to answer these same questions in a scenario where no transaction is possible at all. Really... I can't imagine them being. Let's not forget that ultimately we're all bound to what happens in meatspace.If you just double-spend "a little" to avoid getting caught, then, is it really worth all you've invested, not to mention the risks? (also, if you double-spend just a little, the damage you cause is also little)Now, if you double-spend a lot, then you'd better also hire a good mercenary army to protect you, otherwise those you traded with will get you! Plus, in the case of an attacker double-spending, only those which are unlucky to exchange with him will lose. In a chain frozen for indefinite time, everybody loses everything.And finally, you cannot double-spend something you never owned. The addresses of the attacker could eventually get blacklisted, if he hasn't being jailed or killed yet.What if the attacker in question is a government that can confiscate money from its subject to invest in its operation? (not to mention trying to violently stop those who are honestly mining under their jurisdiction).Imagine, USA, EU, China, Russia etc get together to "rid the world of this terrorist money threat!!". War on Bitcoins declared!I find the freezing attack worse than double-spendings. The only "relief" in it is that it's not profitable, so we're not to expect somebody to do it with his own resources. But there are these huge institutions out there who don't give a fuck to losses... What could be worse than that? Double-spends are not.I guess I should read that topic with more care. I imagined it. Thanks for confirming. Yes, but normally the fee you pay is proportional to the transaction size anyway.Actually, this leaves me with a doubt too. What is actually signed by the inputs of a transaction? Is it the entire output list, or a constant size hash of such output list? Because if it is the former, I guess you risk using more space with bundle transactions, since you'd have to sign every output with every input. If everything you claim here really works, my sincere congratulations. This is impressive. I'm definitely "still interested", but I still think Open Transactions+bitcoin is probably the way to go. It is as distributed as we need, and the technology is already there.I don't think we need to create new chains for everything. The issuance of backed tokens is pretty much what OT is about. Yes, thank you, that's what I was imagining that would happen, as soon as the losses "touch" the total balance (including fees and protections etc), they would force the liquidation of your position, even if it's not expired yet.The thing is, if right after the liquidation, but still before the expiration of your order, the prices swing on the other direction, you're still screwed in spite of having been "right on your bet"...Is that how leverage is done on conventional financial markets as well? You always have to provide some guarantees before hand? For example, if I write a call option to someone, must I always prove before hand that I actually have what I would need to sell in case that option is exercised? I imagined such requirements were laxer on "non-anonymous scenarios", and that eventually people who lose too much would go bankrupt, with police going after them to seize their belongings and all that thing. Anyway, I thought you could go really bankrupt and remain owing people money by playing wrongly in these markets, instead of "at most losing your reserves". Interested newbie here...Thank you for this topic, the "reserve problem" one was blowing my mind. I mean, I know what a call option or a put option is, but all that vocabulary of "covering his shorted coins slipping under his long leveraged position blablabla" is Greek to me.If I understood correctly, the costumer always has to have a balance capable of paying off the risks he's running, is that it?So, in the end, actual leverage (investing more money than you own) isn't yet possible in the bitcoin world, as I suspected?And what changes if that 1:1 constant in your example isn't 1:1 anymore?Thank you for the explanations.
Berlin is more easily accessible than London for non-EU citizens like me. My French titre de séjour grants me passage through Germany and the entire Schengen zone, but not UK. I would need to go through immigration, and others may even need visas, which are a big barrier IMHO.I haven't read all the argumentation for both cities, but you should pay attention on costs. I found it really cool that we could stay on that nice hotel for that price. I don't expect the same level of prices neither in London nor in Berlin, but if Berlin is indeed cheaper than London, I'd say that's another strong point in favor of Berlin. Satellites are not the only option if you are not nomadic. By keeping a roughly fixed position you can also add options like infrared, submarine cables, floating wireless routers etc. I don't know what's the best, but the people behind Blueseed are doing some research on this topic since they'll need fast internet access. I haven't managed to read the entire discussion, only OP, so sorry if I repeat something here.First, shouldn't this topic be taken to TSI's forum? http://seasteading.org/community/forumsNow, about OP, I don't like the nomadic nature of the proposition. Not having a fixed place makes many things too complicated. The main advantage I see is that you may try to run away from bad weather, but that also probably means that eventually you'll have to enter protected, territorial waters for that reason, and then your independence is gone.It's better if you can resist bad weather, even on the deep ocean. But that's not for small ships. Even big ships shake as hell during a storm. As far as I've read on TSI's forum only semi-submersible or fully submersible structures can endure huge waves "calmly". Semi-submersibles (platforms) are very expensive, and submersibles are not... "conventional", but many people support it as the best way to go for seasteading: http://seasteading.org/interact/forums/research/engineering/permanently-submerged-concrete-structures-living-space-bubble-c Not to the chain of course but perhaps sending requests to the p2p network of miners instead... the answers could be in the blocks. The message structure doesn't need to be precisely identical, only "compatible" so that centralized tokens could be exchanged by tokens issued on this chain, and also that issuers could migrate their tokens from a server to the chain and vice-verse. I don't even know if it's feasible, but I was imagining a blockchain implementation that would do pretty much the same task an OT server does. This way, such chain could be seen as another OT server by OT clients. This would make everything more flexible, adding competition and interoperability. Do you see what I mean? Actually, do you understand the OT protocol well enough to say if what I'm imagining is even feasible? Are you sure of that? Miners would want their fees. There's also the harder to measure costs of waiting for confirmations, as well as the probability of double-spends.Anyway, we can't really know for sure what would be better, I guess both have its uses. I'm just saying that I think it would be more productive if we would focus on improving what's already there for OT, instead of working on this new chain right now. The OT protocol seems promising. I myself should read more about it and eventually contribute, I believe I saw there's a Java client for it or something...But of course, an OT-blockchain, compatible with the OT protocol, would only bring extra choices and thus improvements. That's the ideal, of course, but there's no way we can do that with technology only. That doesn't mean strong reputation systems can't arise. If everything you've got are "gentlemen agreements", we can at least try to better identify who are the gentlemen and who are not. That's not as good as enforceable contracts, but still, I believe such a thing could bring some competition into an over regulated and consequently too concentrated market. The OT protocol is pretty much global too. And I must insist: this chain solution would not manage to decentralize the most important aspect of this problem, which is the trust on the issuer. This problem is inherently centralized. The chain would only decentralize double-spend checks, which IMHO are a minor issue in this context (if your issuer is serious, he won't allow double-spending, if he's not, that's the least of your worries).Anyway, if you are really wanting to go by this chain solution, I'd suggest researching the viability of making this chain fully compatible with OT, in the sense that the chain itself, in what concerns the OT protocol, could be seen as just an extra server. This would bring more flexibility, interaction and competition.I definitely agree with that as well. But this problem is inherently centralized. You'll only decentralize the double-spending checks with such blockchain, but the main trust problem - if the issuer of the token will keep up to his "words" - remains centralized on the issuer. Shouldn't we be looking toward something like Open Transactions instead? The protocol is already there, and as far as I understood, it suits precisely these kind of "token issuing" use cases. Tu abandonnes 85 BTC, comme ça? Ce n'est pas des pièces jaunes ça...Essayes dexécuter les commandes dans le prompt DOS, à la place de la boite Windows+R. Tu ouvres le prompt DOS, fais "cd C:\Program Files\Bitcoin\bin\32" et après tu exécute les commandes au dessous.Essayes la commande validateaddress suggérée par davout et poste ici le résultat. S'il y a une erreur en particulière, cette erreur sera affichée dans ta fenêtre DOS.Ou alors, il y a personne à qui tu fais confiance et qui puisse t'aider? Tu pourrais lui passer ton wallet.dat pour qu'il te renvoi le montant à ton compte MtGox. "Not yet redeemed" veut juste dire que l'adresse en question n'a pas été dépensé. Normal si c'est l'adresse où tu as reçu les bitcoins, si tu ne les as pas encore envoyé qlq part d'autre. Si tu as mis ton ancien wallet.dat dans une installation nouvelle, il faut au moins une fois démarrer ton bitcoin par ligne de commande avec le switch -rescan, pour qu'il se rend compte des transactions passées.De tout façon, ton plus grand problème maintenant n'est pas voir ton historique, mais avoir ton compte MtGox crédité. D'ailleurs, tu n'avais pas besoin d'utiliser MtGox comme backup pour tes bitcoins, mais bon...As-tu déjà vérifié si la transaction que tu as envoyé à MtGox est dans la blockchain? Tu peux le confirmer ici: http://blockchain.infoSi elle n'y est pas encore, regardes plutôt si elle n'est pas en attente. Tu peux voir la liste de transactions en attente ici: http://bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin/ Si ta transaction se trouve dans cette liste, tu n'as qu'à attendre. (Théoriquement c'est possible d'y ajouter des frais pour qu'elle soit prise en compte plus vite, mais je ne connais aucun logiciel que te permet de faire ça) J'ai oublié la possibilité des espaces... essayes de mettre le chemin du programme entre guillemets, et juste pour être sûr, mettons .exeCode:"C:\Program Files\Bitcoin\bin\32\bitcoin-qt.exe" -rescan Je vois.Bon, je vais essayer.Je suppose que tu es en Windows, et que tu as la dernière version de bitcoin. Et je suppose que tu sais où est installé ton bitcoin. Disons que ton installation de bitcoin est sur  C:\RepertoireBitcoin\Arrêtes le programme bitcoin s'il exécute.Appuies sur la touche "Windows" plus la touche R, cela va t'ouvrir une fenêtre pour exécuter une commande (des utilisateurs des version récentes de Windows me corrigent si je dis des bêtises).Dans cette fenêtre tu vas exécuter:C:\RepertoireBitcoin\bin\32\bitcoin-qt -rescanEn remplaçant C:\RepertoireBitcoin par le vrai chemin.Et attends qu'il finis de charger.Maintenant, je me sens obligé de te donner un conseil. Je ne pense pas que tu devrais estoquer une quantité sensible de bitcoins à ton ordinateur. Tu risques de chopper un trojan qui va te les voler. Je ne te dis pas de rien estoquer, mais n'y garde pas plus de ce que tu accepterais de perdre, car la chance est considérable.Si tu veux avoir une quantité de bitcoins que tu n'accepterais pas de perdre, donc je te conseille de les estoquer aux e-wallets plus réputés. MtGox et Tradehill semblent sérieux, et ce nouveau Crypto X Change aussi. Tu pourrais les distribuer, un peu dans chaque. Mais évites ton ordinateur, considères-le un "environnement potentiellement compromis". Moi je n'estoque pratiquement rien dans l'ordinateur que j'utilise quotidiennement pour accéder le web et tout... mais je suis informaticien et je sais comment me créer un environnement plus sécurisé.Peut-être bientôt tu pourras tacheter un des dispositifs présentés par Clemens Cap dans la conférence à Prague, là tu pourrais estoquer tes bitcoins toi même en toute sécurité. C'est une ligne de commande. Tu vas jusqu'à ton répertoire d'installation de bitcoin, puis bin/32 si je me rappelle bien, et là tu exécutes la commande au dessus, en remplacent ADRESSE par ton adresse bien sûr.À partir de la 0.5 lexécutable s'appelle bitcoin-qt je crois, pas bitcoin tout court. Tu demarres bitcoin par la ligne de commande:Code:bitcoin-qt -rescanSi l'adresse auquel les bitcoin ont été transférés est bien dans ce wallet.dat, c'est correct. Oh but mining will be a professional thing regardless. Actually, it already is, if we consider only those who mine solo or operate pools, they are quite few.I wouldn't compare that to a centralized solution though. Anyone with the skills and resources can enter the market, and most importantly, pool operators don't own the resources that they use to mine. Even if a pool operator is shut down by force, the actual miners, those who own the cards, can just switch to another pool or start mining solo. Somebody may also try to create a new pool to gather all those pool-less miners. Anyway, it's not comparable to a centralized solution where you kill everything by killing the servers.Don't you think that's the political way of solving problems? We're more likely to create new problems than solving the existent one. Please, keep in mind that there's nothing we can do to prevent such kind of "cartel boycott" from happening right now. I'd argue that not even CPU-friendly proof-of-work algorithms prevent that, since in the end there would be big pools anyway (and while they don't prevent cartels, they create new vulnerabilities).And I don't think transaction fees will ever be draconian, for the reason you also note:The fact that it's not that difficult to transact outside of the blockchain already prevents miners from abusing. And they are competing with someone else: they are competing with other miners, with e-wallets which take transactions out of the chain, with offline means of payment like casacius coins and bitbills etc.   I didn't understand this. I'm not making such assumption.I'm not sure if I follow. You think the "miner consensus" would artificially create huge blocks with fake transactions in it, just to kick out those who do not have the resources to handle it? Because otherwise, if they are not faking anything and the blocks are big, that's the bitcoin network itself who's kicking them out.I don't think it is clever for pool operators to try to fake large blocks.That's not a change in the protocol, other than eventually eliminating the 1MB limit - what will have to be done anyway.Miners are the only ones that should concern with huge blocks, so why not let them work that out? Yes, I guess it was Mike Hearn the first to come by with this insurance idea a while ago, but at the time maybe I didn't pay the deserved attention to it, or I just didn't think it through well enough, don't remember.I can't obviously "explain exactly how will this work" since I have no crystal ball. But I tend to trust more on spontaneous order than centrally planned order, particularly when it comes to economic incentives. And that's what Stefan made me see with those talks: by arguing for an arbitrary formula to set up a moving block size limit, I was in a sense arguing for central planning instead of spontaneous order.I will just give a grasp on the idea of these insurances for those who haven't heard about it yet. Basically, people interested in not being the target of double-spends, as well as being capable of spending at all (the "freezing the network" attack scenario), could hire insurances for that. Say, for example, some organization wants to freeze bitcoin's network with a >50% attack. If that happens, insurers would have to pay a huge amount to their clients. They have a financial interest to rent enough processing power to outcome such attack as quick as possible. (actually, I would expect most bitcoin users to collaborate... not only for ideological reasons, but simply to be able to spend their money again)If you want a more "discussed" scenario which can be compared to bitcoin's "transaction fee tragedy of the commons" scenario, I'd suggest the one of stateless defense. It's obviously not exactly the same thing, but I think it's the closest one on economic literature. For example, half of the The Chaos Theory book, from Bob Murphy, is about stateless defense.It's not "my solution". And, what do you mean with "nobody having a clear idea what they need to do to have their blocks accepted"? Nothing needs to be done on secret, actually pool operators would better announce everything they do pretty clearly since they are using other people's resources after all.And, also, what did I lose?
It's on the interest of miners not to have huge blocks, which they didn't mine, occupying space on their hard drives. Also I believe it's on their interest not to split the network. So, they can create rules of the kind "I won't build on top of blocks larger than X unless they are already Y blocks deep already". They can actually have multiple rules with different values for X and Y. If most miners roughly agree on these parameters, it would be really hard to keep a chain with a block larger than such limits.Plus, if they want, they can actually use the same mechanism to try to boycott miners which accept transactions with "too low fees". "I won't mine on top of blocks which had transactions paying less than X/Kb unless it is already Y blocks deep". That would be another "decentralized" way to deal with the incentives issue, besides the eventual insurers.It would be a backward incompatible change, so it would need to be scheduled with a good advance to minimize this risk.Not entirely sure. As it would be faking transactions, only their blocks would push the limit up. Every other "true block" would be way below the limit, pushing the average down. The amount of waste these abusing network would manage to create would be proportional to the amount of processing power they have, and I don't think you can gather that many people for such a pointless attack... Maybe phones would only be the consumers of such services. The providers could be people better equipped, in their homes, allowing unknown people to use their home connection, for a cheaper price than what they would normally pay for 3G... And I think this is the point of this thread, and for this very reason I must subscribe here.This is very interesting and has great potential, I'd like to participate, or at least follow closely whatever you come up with. I fully agree there. This guy needs to learn some economics. His take on "free things cause unemployment" was so wrong... He could start reading some Bastiat; http://bastiat.org/en/petition.htmlIf I understood it correctly, it is a common protocol for issuing centralized tokens for anything. The idea is that people can exchange different tokens, from different issuers, digitally, using the same protocol.I also don't know much about Open Transaction, I would need to learn more. I wonder if with alternative chains and merged mining we couldn't actually completely decentralize the double-spend verification part of the Open Transaction protocol, making it less centralized. It is inherently centralized anyway, since we're talking about token issuers. Reviving this old topic just to say that my opinion on this subject has mostly changed, mainly after some very interesting talks with Stefan Thomas and others (even the great economist Detlev Schlichter was there  ) during the bitcoin conference in Prague.We probably don't need to mind with fixing a max block size on the protocol. The spam problem is a problem for pool operators and solo-miners only, as already said in this thread. And the transaction fee "tragedy of the commons" scenario would probably be better solved by market agents (like insurers) than by arbitrary rules on the protocol. By fixing arbitrary rules, we will either not create the amount of incentives needed, or, more likely, we will create more incentives than what's actually needed, provoking unnecessary waste of resources. I can't, my account is not verified. Ha, nice to recognize people here in the forum. We've talked during the conference, OP. I'm the Brazilian-living-in-France guy. Guess I'll just add a photo of me too so that people can recognize me like I just recognized you.About the topic, I agree with those saying that bitcoin can be both things. It's clear that so far, it is not a good store of value, and won't be for a while. But I'd expect it to become stable one day.But you and Tony are correct when they say that currently, bitcoin is "only" a superior means of payment. Most people should only use bitcoin like that, for now. There was also the announcement of that dedicated device development, by Clemens Cap. Just adding my voice to all those saying that the conference was a great experience.The talks were good, and meeting so many other bitcoin enthusiasts was also great. I hope I can keep in touch with most of them.Prague is also a nice city, even when we add the frozen weather to the equation. Impressive how it has good infrastructure and at the same time prices are so low. A hotel of the same quality of that Panorama one would likely cost three times more here in France. And what can I say about those cheap beers and the deliciously cheap pork meat!  You made a good choice of venue, for sure! My sincere congratulations to everyone behind the organization of this great event! Will there be anyone selling bitcoins for cash (euros) during the conference? Same thing here. The directory /data/data does not exist. Where else could my wallet be? Do I need a rooted android just to find the wallet? What's BitMarket.eu current situation?I mean, I can see trades keep happening, but I wonder if the site is running on "auto-mode".Not that we can demand anything since the service is free after all. Just to know how much should I expect of it. That's the protocol. Every bitcoin full node will verify that each new block respects the difficult factor. If somebody starts producing/accepting blocks which don't follow this rule, s/he will end up with forked chain.There's no "hard guarantee" that a good number of people won't switch to a different chain that doesn't follow the current rules. It just hasn't happened yet and I don't think it's likely to happen any time soon. I don't condemn your attitude, I'm just not confident it will be effective, particularly considering big governments as USSA. It might be more effective in places where financial privacy is less attacked and the government doesn't depend that much on inflation, like Switzerland. I don't view the regression theory of von Mises as a claim that money must arise from a commodity. That, IMHO, is a bad interpretation.I view such theory as an explanation of how money economies started from previous barter economies.Bitcoin does nothing to invalidate such explanation, nor such theory implies that bitcoin could not exist/work.The link between the bitcoin money economy and previous barter economies was made the day some people decided to exchange bitcoins for dollars. There's a topic on this forum about it. No. It's funny how people adapt their expectations. What do you mean by "for so long"? A couple months ago the price of 1 BTC was below $1. It's changing damn fast. There's medieval Ireland too, which stood for almost a thousand years with no concept of state justice.I'm not aware of this Asian example. How was it called? Do you have a good text about it? That's a possibility, both the small population and the small territory. The small population makes it a bit harder for "interest groups" to largely benefit from the effects of public choice, since there's not a big crowd to which they can externalize their costs. And a small territory makes it harder for government to abuse since people can easily emigrate. That's even stronger in Switzerland since everybody speaks at least one "foreign" language, so there are even less barriers to emigration. Also, the lack of a national language may make it harder to create a national identity, and therefore, less nationalism. Nationalism is clearly something that helps governments to expand.But still, although I think it makes some sense, I wouldn't defend the theory of OP as something very certain.
I've seen this argument before. It makes some sense, but it's not that strong. The same thing could be said of an absence of government then.And, well, Switzerland started with a small federalized government centuries before US was born, and today it is still smaller than US federal government. The fact that they've kept their currency pegged to gold up to the 90s probably helped on that, but the question "why the same didn't happen in Switzerland" is still open, since all those banks there could have managed to end such pegging before, but they did not. Great text, OP.Another good text, explaining why so many people, particularly leftists, have a wrong understanding of economics: http://mises.org/daily/4700 Well, I know it's possible to build bitcoind alone. What I meant is if the bitcoind executable will contain useless GUI code or not... before, they were not separable, the core code from the graphical code. At least I remember reading this somewhere. Does that mean the graphical code has already been separated from the core code, and we can build them separately now? I thought it was still one big chunk of non-modular code.Damn, I thought I was following these forums, but I've been losing major things apparently...  Yes, definitively!Thank you for your contributions to the project, it's getting better.  That sounds cool. Maybe the window in step 3 could be the same window of the total list of addresses, with the new one selected. The recommended way to use bitcoin is by creating a new address for each receipt. Somebody following this practice will already have to click a button to generate a new address in a new window. In this window it's already possible to copy it to the clipboard.I don't think the behavior of not following this practice should be facilitated by the client, as it is today, by making the last address there, available to be copied and reused.Wouldn't a combo become too big eventually? Anyway, if it is easy to filter by the address label I suppose that's not a problem. Nice to see such improvements! Great work!I'll suggest a change that I think would make some newbies understand bitcoin addresses faster: remove the last selected address from the main window. Make the user always have to click somewhere to open the list of addresses, even if it only has one.I think that would be good because frequently I've seen people who think that address which is being shown there is the bitcoin addresses of theirs. Like if there were only one, as a bank account number. This happens frequently.By not having this one address on the main page, they will have to search it somewhere else, and there they will see that there is space for an entire list, with buttons to "create new" and all that. At this stage, a violent attack from a big government like that would put bitcoin in all mainstream TV shows. It's possible that the more abiding of governments subjects start to run away from the technology, but such publicity would attract those who are not that abiding. I'm talking about this: http://falkvinge.net/2011/06/16/bitcoins-four-drivers-part-one-unlawful-trade/So that would be shooting on their own feet.And about the blogger of OP, I think he just wants to provoke bitcoin enthusiasts to see their reactions. This topic reminds me of this nice song: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pV7u91A3KGQ Ah bon? Ça fait longtemps que je n'utilise pas Tor pour venir ici, mais avant j'utilisais sans problème. Sérieux qu'ils ont décidé de bloquer Tor complètement? C'est mauvais ça...Les gens qui viennent faire du spam ou troller souvent vont s'utiliser des IPs communs ou qu ne leur appartiennent pas. Une politique de blocage d'IP c'est toujours mauvaise, vu qu'elle finis souvent pour affecter des gens qui n'ont rien à voir. Comme cette politique de bloquer Tor déjà. No smellyBobby, people have the right to suicide if that's what they wish, is it so hard to understand?I would understand if friends use force to prevent another friend to kill himself, depending on the situation I might do it myself. But that's ethically wrong. In your example it's a form of kidnapping if you will. Ce n'est pas une bonne solution. Tu peux finir pour bloquer un Tor-exit node ou le proxy de toute une entreprise par exemple. For such situations, I'd say no better way to define the age of independence than independence itself. You want to be in full control of your life? Ok, go and do it. Oh, you want me to keep sheltering you, feeding you, and buying you video-games? So you're not independent yet, go finish your homework.   That's only true if you mean what was done after the crisis, not what was being done before.Although quite laissez-faire in many aspects, Iceland had an insane central bank, printing much more money than US Fed. The M1 yearly growth rate has touched 90% in 2007. The average was between 20% and 30% from 2002 to 2007. An immense increase of credit through money pumping. No wonder the crisis hit them so hard. For a more complete reading: http://mises.org/daily/3499 Haven't yet read the text but US leftists which use Sweden as example so much should realize this country is, in many senses, much closer from a free-market than the US is, even though it's many miles away.I've seen many economical freedom indexes ranking these Nordic countries as very easy on regulations, which are much more critical (do more damage) than government spending.And even when talking about government spending, although true that they rob their subjects insanely, more than the US gov does, it is also true that the government gets to decide what to do with the money less than in most big governments. A considerable amount of the stolen money is just redistributed to the people so they decide how to spend it. For example, instead of using tax money to finance public schools, they give this money to parents so they choose which school to put their children in. I don't know how their socialized health care works, but it wouldn't surprise me if it was in the same line. This is still far from free market, but much closer than the majority of US school systems. Another major point regarding government spending is that they don't finance huge mass murderers military forces, doing multiple wars at a time - this counts a lot. They didn't even join any of the WW as far as I know, what is obviously great for the economy in the long run.Ah, also, did the article mentioned that the Swedish government did not bailout large corporations like Saab? Bailing out failing companies is horrible to the recovery. I don't think he meant that only coders can help the project, but rather that in a FLOSS project you don't get to complain as if you were a client, what's very true. You're not a costumer, you're getting it for free. If you want something better, either contribute to it directly or convince/hire someone to do it for you.Good feedback is always welcome by any reasonable person, but it is true that many people think devs here are at their service, complaining as if they were on the costumers line of some service they're paying for. I think Rockfella made a good point here. Currently, well, it is mainly for geeks which don't use Windows. At least if you want to keep it yourself, on your computer. You may as well trust a third party to keep your money, but the recent attacks on MtGox show us even that is not very secure either.I realize it's a pity, but I really don't see how can you expect average non technical people to protect their bitcoins effectively. That might change in the future, let's hope it does, but it is not the case right now.Entirely in agreement with that one. The same possibility exists concerning pool operators, right now. Slush + Deepbit have more than 50% of the computing power. BTCGuild is also huge. They wouldn't have much trouble to coordinate some attack, if they wanted to. But if even them, which only get a small share of what is mined under their pool, don't have an incentive to double-spend, imagine a botnet owner who would get 100% of the mining returns if doing it honestly?Double-spending through a >50% attack is not cost effective. The incentives to be an honest miner are much stronger.If we should worry with a >50% attack, that would be a politically-motivated one, with the intend to pause the network for as long as they can at the expense of some taxvictims. And even that is not very likely either. There's certainly interest in such a thing. Show everyone what you can do.
Imagine how many business, in so many different sectors, fail to be created due to these kind of requirements?These artificially created barriers to entry only serve to benefit those who are already established. It's sad to see so many people doesn't getting it and supporting more of these regulations, and at the same time they blaming free markets for income disparities. Regulation, no matter what you naively believe, exists to get rid of annoying competition, concentrating market shares and income. Learn about "public choice", the first 20 seconds of this video might enlighten you a bit: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uR4lqa7IK4Regulations cause that effect much more effectively and transparently ("disguisedly") than simple government spending.Anyway, you probably won't care, I'm probably losing my time here.Yeah, pretty much like the much more serious hack of Sony was avoided, right? Not precisely, it's an attack against the owners of the infected machines. Software, mostly.I plan to buy a new computer and then allocate my old laptop only for bitcoin usage, as long as it survives. No web browsing on it. It will be quite annoying getting the addresses from the "surfer machine" to the "bitcoin machine" each time I want to do a payment, so maybe I'll leave a small wallet on the dangerous machine as well. Something that wouldn't make me pull my hairs out if it's stolen. Or maybe I'll just get used with copying and pasting the addresses around. I also think you should consider selling it. Honestamente, acho que o melhor que você faz é começar a aceitar pagamentos em bitcoins pelos serviços de tua LAN. Venda apenas as que precisar para pagar pelo seus custos, e acumule o que puder em BTC na forma de poupança. Você poderia ganhar mais grana com isso, além de divulgar o projeto para todos os seus clientes, aumentando o número de brasileiros capazes de se proteger contra a inflação do Real. Os mais curiosos poderiam até aprender bastante sobre o quão corrupto é o nosso sistema monetário.Claro que no começo ninguém vai ter bitcoins para te pagar. Mas você poderia montar uma pequena exchange in-loco também. Compra algumas bitcoins no MeuBitcoin e venda-as a seus clientes, ao mesmo tempo em que explica o projeto e porque bitcoins são melhores que o Real. As long as there is not a keylogger in the machine you use to mount your truecrypt partition... that's the main problem. It would be great if we had a ranking system for entire topics. Like, if enough people vote a topic to be "trollish" or plain bullshit, you don't even waste your time opening it. A default from the PIGS would be the optimistic grand-finale for this tragedy. I am not that optimistic, I think the chances of the BCE monetizing the Greek debt are high, what would be worse.My "optimistic hope" is regarding other euro-zone countries, whose populations have made clear they do not want to bailout foreign governments. I wonder if the Finish for example would attempt to leave the euro-zone. And if they did, what would be the consequences? Would other countries follow? If Germany drops the euro, it's the end of the common currency... and the Germans are precisely those who are paying the most to bailout these broken governments.Here's a very interesting text about the euro, and why it is a self-destructive system: http://mises.org/daily/5331/The-EMU-as-a-SelfDestroying-System https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Scalability There are 2 issues there. One is abusing the disk space of miners by making the block chain grow to much. Transactions fees prevent this.Another is sending tons of microtransactions to yourself in order to consume the entire bandwidth of all bitcoin clients. This can be avoided by refusing to propagate the transactions of a peer which seems to be flooding. But currently the mechanism used is that transactions which don't obey a hardcoded transaction fee policy are not propagated by the default client software. I don't like this mechanism very much, I hope one day it gets replaced by something that doesn't impose a transaction fee policy. But it's better than nothing anyway. I'm not an expert, but isn't the private key memory area of a smart card unrecheable? How would you backup your wallet if it is in a smart card?For a home use dedicated device, I don't think it needs a smartcard. Just a flash memory, plus wallet encryption with a password should be enough. Actually it's better, since you could easily make backups of this encrypted wallet.How I see such device:Small, but not necessarily pocket-portableWith a small keyboardWith inner storage capable of storing the wallet, a light-weight blockchain (headers + blocks in which you have money) and all the software it needsCapable of password protecting your walletWallet management and transfers features just like in the bitcoin clientA camera so the user can read bitcoins addresses or QR codes with btc addresses from anywhereWi-fi used only to connect to the bitcoin network, nothing elseWith a USB port so you can make backups of your wallet somewhere elseAs cheap as possible, meaning monochromatic screen and no unnecessary fancy stuff like touchscreen etcAnd as a big bonus, although not that important:Embedded anonymisation proxies (Tor, I2P)Bio-metric authenticationSuch a device would be just wonderful. No you can't. More on that below...Not at all. By definition, a government (state):Has a monopoly on the ultimate dispute resolution (Justice monopoly)Although not imperative, almost always finance itself through theft (taxes)There is no competition or voluntary contracts regarding governments. That's a huge difference between them and what I describe in the paragraphs you quoted.If you have a legitimate interest (I guess you might have some, otherwise you would not have read the auto-translated text of mine ), consider reading Chaos Theory by Robert Murphy. It's a short, easy to read book.Quickly answering this, it would be just very unlikely for anyone not subject to any sort of anti-murder law (or "not insured", in Robert Murphy's terms) to even be anywhere near any civilized place in a free society. And in the event that really happens, and this someone commits murder and is caught, he would probably have to willingly submit himself to some court, otherwise he'd be much more screwed if he happens to be ostracized. Remember, he would lose all legal protection in such situation. Just link the dots to realize what that could mean.From where you are today, if you are not happy with your government, what can you do? Can you cancel your contract and subscribe yourself to a different justice provider, with different rules? Or create your own justice provider, with your own set of rules?Government, by definition, is a monopoly, which depend on coercion to exist. The "foolishness" you criticize is a free market of law and justice. They are completely different things.I won't answer the rest of the post because it's basically the same thing, you're confusing free markets with monopolies. A custom device with only the bare essentials to connect to the bitcoin network and send transactions would be something awesome. I can't see a better way to protect your wallet while also using it. Are lotteries and bingo immoral? What about sports competition with prizes?Just let people spend their money the way they want... Anarchism (as in "no government") = free society, you should know. Like, if you're forced to work for others, you're not really free...I just avoid the word anarchism since it has been somehow hijacked by confused communists, and in many cultures it means "chaos".You don't need any sort of mafia to have laws and justice: http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=fr&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=pt&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mises.org.br%2FArticle.aspx%3Fid%3D605That's a logical contradiction.Sure! Only by stealing people and forcing them to abide to our decisions we can make them drive safely! Property rights and contracts are useless on that matter... how couldn't I see such a thing!?Seriously, man? That's all you've got? Seriously? It was stolen?? That's awful! What a pity... Very interesting analysis bitsalame.It indeed makes more sense, all those bitcoins belonging to MtGox... maybe the hacker even knew that, since he had access to an auditor's computer, and somehow knew where to start looking for coins. Maybe the "auditor" computer had the password to the super-rich account. Actually, maybe the "auditor" wasn't an auditor, but just one of their employees who happened to have access to the whole database and money.It surprises me anyway, 500.000 coins... that's a lot of revenue for their service... it's indeed a business with a lot of space for more competition!Just my criticism though: you should be careful before calling such technique a "science". It's as scientific as meteorology or other "sciences" which can't really be trusted... there's no logical way to build knowledge over axioms, and by using an empirical approach, how can you isolate all variables, distinguish interference and all? Anyways, maybe I'm just being too much of a purist here. My 2 cents:People are being too hard on MagicalTux. Sure, there were problems. But let's remember he got the exchange from a guy who developed it alone in his spare time, and since then he's been very busy trying to answer all e-mails while getting rid of DDoS attacks. He didn't have too much time to fix the problems, everything happened really fast.On the other hand, I also have a hard time believing this story of "one account with 500KBTC in it". I can't believe such an amount would be left in a MtGox account with weak password. The most reasonable possibility I see to that is the owner of the account passed away months ago, when these 500K weren't worth that much, and never told his relatives/heirs about the account. Sounds unlikely. Attention avec ça... je dirais que c'est mieux de laisser passer quelques arnaques que de bloquer des annonces légitimes...
Negrito meu.Você não acha que está menosprezando uma etapa consideravelmente complicada? Yes and no... I guess many only donated because it was a bitcoin donation, not an USD one. I really feel as if EFF was dishonoring their bitcoin donors, although I understand their fear of government. So maybe the best would be to try to return the money to the donors, and those who really want to donate it to the EFF will do the conversion and donation themselves. If you put them in the faucet, the chance of that happening is much higher, IMHO. I find it a pity that they are not willing to use that money to promote electronic freedom. That was the purpose the money was donated to. They are dishonoring their donors and supporters. Shame on EFF.I also find it dangerous to put that much amount of money in the Faucet. It will probably get stolen. I agree many are ugly, but instead of complaining, why don't you do better ones, OP?Many of these sites are made by entrepreneurs geeks which have no budget to buy the services of professional web designers. Give them a break, they are at least doing what they can.And, well, the quality of such sites is improving. Most were uglier before.  You know what is even much less likely to happen than a free society? A world without intentional murders. I just can't imagine that happening... can you?And, just wondering, knowing that intentional murders will probably always happen, do you by conclusion support a minimum number of murders so everything keeps working fine, as we know it? Neither deflation nor inflation are theft. The value of your property is not an intrinsic feature of your property. If the acts of some people increase or decrease the value of your property, without affecting the property itself, this is not a crime at all. It's valid for any kind of property.The true aggression in modern times inflation is the fact that people are forced to accept the money the government monopolizes as means of payment. And then the government can inflate this money at its own profit. The ethical problem isn't on inflation itself, it is in money monopoly.And besides the aggression of the money monopoly, there's the aggression of intellectual property too. Nobody owns an image. If you want to print a particular image in a particular piece of paper, nobody has the right to kidnap you for that. And that includes printing dollar bills, or any fiat money bills. Of course, that would change if such image represented a contract. You cannot make a contract in the name of somebody else, that's fraud. So, although counterfeiting dollar bills is perfectly legitimate from an ethical point of view, counterfeiting bills redeemable in bitcoin or whatever else is a contract fraud, since you'd be saying somebody else will pay your debt, without the authorization of this person.  I received. I haven't yet checked the PGP signature that came with it though. I didn't use the same password for both sites, but it was reset anyway. http://www1.folha.uol.com.br/multimidia/podcasts/930928-ronaldo-lemos-moeda-virtual-permite-anonimato-na-rede.shtml Idem comigo... Sorte que a senha da minha conta MtGox não era a mesma de nenhum outro lugar. hehehe, it's quite ironic that you cite Wikipedia.org. I don't know any site with more heated political debates than wikipedia! They are all over the site. And yet that doesn't make, afaik, people judge the whole encyclopedia by the political opinions of those who they see discussing there.And talking about being official sites, all these sites you mention have organizations behind them, like the Mozilla foundation or the Wikimedia foundation. Although you still cannot rigorously talk about an "official firefox project decision", you can pretty much talk about an "official Mozilla foundation decision on firefox development", and that's what you'll see reflected on mozilla.org.Now, for bitcoin, there's no actual institution behind it. Its organization is entirely spontaneous. It really doesn't make much sense to take the political debates in this forum as an "official position" of the "bitcoin project" or anything alike. Honestly, I find it ... how can I say... a quite poor discernment, at the very least.I agree that the forum has become impossible to follow, and many silly political discussions have their share on that. But I'd be satisfied with better ways to filter the content that you want, like, for ex., when you click "show unread threads", it would be nice to be able to filter out entire categories.Anyways, it's not up to me to decide anything, just giving my opinion.Please, nobody is squatting anything. Individuals maintain this site, with all its infrastructure, for us to use freely. They don't charge anyone anything, neither ask donations. At least be decent enough to recognize their generous contribution instead of attacking them like that.Now legitimately owning something is the same of taking it hostage? Afaik, it's sirius who owns bitcoin.org, not theymos. I don't. And this isn't a democracy, it is private property. It's up to sirius to decide in the end. Finally! That's what I've been trying to say.Weusecoins.com was created precisely with this intend of being a "PR site", for newbies and all. Just promote that site if you don't want to create a new one. Do you know what an open source project is? There is no organization behind bitcoin, it has no owners, no official representatives.Bitcoin.org is only a site which has been used by all to discuss and evolve the project, and it is not hostage to anyone, it is owned by a very generous individual - afaik, he's keeping the infrastructure with his own money, earning nothing out of it.I thought about this thing of limiting the scope of the forum, and I must admit that there would be at least one advantage: it would be less impractical to follow it. Today, I just can't, most threads have to go ignored. But I'm still not sure suppressing non-development discussions is a good move. If everything is properly categorized, RSS per categories would help to ignore those you don't want to follow. Esse tipo de notícia, ao meu ver, é mais negativa à imagem do projeto do que notícias do SilkRoad.Foda.Alguém tem conta no G1 pra explicar com um comentário que isso não é uma fragilidade do projeto em si, mas sim do usuário que tentou guardar muitas moedas por conta própria mas não tomou muitos cuidados? (usar windows, deixar as bitcoins descriptografadas e na mesma máquina que usa para navegar etc) This is probably true. All this mumbling about illegal trading and money laundering are merely excuses. Me neither. If there are known interfaces with the banking system, it can be shut down. Actually, if exchanges like MtGox are ever shut down, it will be through their bank account. The only way I can see a fully distribute exchange software operating is in a OTC fashion. But that also make it painful for those needing to deal with large amounts. Unless, maybe, there is some (semi-)automated way to verify the credentials of those you're trading with, and also automate multiple bank transfers.But well, those operating with large amounts must either do it legally - what imply they cannot use bitcoins in a bitcoin prohibition scenario - or must be professional money launders, who I don't think really need help. Maybe we should focus precisely on those poorer ones who live in places where bitcoin happens one day to be forbidden. Alphaville are just big and rich condos, they have no political independence. I don't see why you all are so scandalized with the idea of paying people for advertising the site... that doesn't imply they are scammers. I wouldn't call it bribery either. It is just one among many techniques of advertising, like when companies pay celebrities to "speak good" about their products on TV.
Yeah, hijacked by its own creator, who created the inflation cap! Please lady, pay attention to what you're saying. Bitcoin has anti-inflation political/economical views since its beginning. Don't like it? Fork the project and create your "inflatacoin" or whatever, keeping the other characteristics. You may as well make it possible for the government to track transactions on your implementation, since you seem so reluctant against "subversive technologies" and the possibility of tax evasion.And if the politics forum bothers you so much, just don't read the discussions. What's so hard in that? I'm not sure such parallel is coherent. Drugs prohibition strongly decreases drugs supply, thus increasing their prices. Bitcoin prohibition wouldn't change its supply - unless people start destroying their wallets in fear of getting caught, what's unlikely to be substantial. At most, if done early, such prohibition might have a strong advertising effect, increasing the demand for bitcoins. But that's hard to predict. This is big. Shouldn't this topic be sticked for a while? If "everyone" wants to have their money devalued by government, then they don't need to move anywhere, just stick with government currency. Using bitcoins implies in not wanting monetary inflation in the long run. And it is built-in in the system.Seriously, if you really want to get your money devalued by government's inflation, then don't use bitcoins, it doesn't make sense. I just think you are the minority there. Most people would rather being able to protect the value of their money, IMHO. For doing the type of calculations it does, I think you can safely assume there is no network out there as powerful as bitcoin. But the type of hardware mostly used for hashing blocks might not be that effective when used for other types of calculations, so depending on what you need to do, I'm not sure the bitcoin network is the strongest one available.Regarding variation, estimates of the total computing power are done using the number of blocks produced in a time window and the difficulty factor. If the time window is too short, like a few hours, you'll see wild variations. You should get estimates which use larger time windows, like one or two weeks. Have I REALLY used these words? Honestly?People, if bitcoin has no political-economical view built-in, then why in hell do you think it has a logarithmic growth, with an asymptotic limit? Stable monetary supply is an economical position supported only by Austrian economists. All mainstream "economists" support monetary inflation.And, again, like it or not, using bitcoin instead of dollars or euros or whatever is a political position. It is not like "overthrowing government", but it is at least the equivalent of saying "I do not authorize the government to finance itself nor its banker friends with the inflation of my money." This political position is built in bitcoin. If you don't agree with this position, sorry but you should not use bitcoins. You should just keep using the currency of your government.Saying that bitcoin has no political/economical view built-in at all is just wrong. It does.Now if you don't like the political debates here, just don't join them. Honestly, I doubt that these debates scare more the condescending subjects of governments than stuff like SR for ex. They can be payed with newly created money, in large quantities. True, but Bitcoin and bitcoin.org are not business. Like it or not, bitcoins have a political and economic background, you cannot really separate them.Instead, I advice you to link your friends to apolitical sites like weusecoins.com or that Bitcoin Consultancy I saw somewhere, and maybe prevent them that if they come to this forum they will see heated political discussions. That's inevitable and should not be banned, IMHO. This would probably be the ideal solution, a dedicated device which is only used for bitcoin, never to surf the web. The annoyance would be getting addresses from your web-access machine to your bitcoin machine easily. It is so simple to just copy and paste it in the bitcoin client. But yeah, I intend to do that with my old laptop, as soon as I buy another computer. Actually, I think one should avoid using what mostly every body else uses. That's the problem with Windows.Now, I wonder if the majority of bitcoiners store their wallets on linux or windows machines... it wouldn't surprise me if more than half of us were on linux, making it more vulnerable than windows on that matter. I'm really not aware about how this Namecoin works, I should read more.Can somebody just quickly explain me why its creators chose to make a separate chain which has to have its own miners? Why not reuse the work done in bitcoin mining? That could be done by only allowing a block to be created in Namecoin if it contains a signature done with the private key of the bitcoin block generation. What's part of the definition of monopoly, by the way. An exchange doesn't need to have a bank account, it can operate like OTC, bitmarket.eu etc. I am not sure it will happen as you describe, particularly the price crash.I understand it is not appropriate to compare bitcoins with drugs, but you can compare for example with gold. When it was forbidden in US, did its global price dumped too strongly?And such "war on bitcoins" could work as a strong publicity for bitcoins, increasing the demand.Also, let's not forget that not all governments in the world are so dependent of their monetary monopoly. Some don't even have such monopoly. And it's not all governments which impose revenue taxes either. These governments wouldn't have such a strong incentive to ban bitcoins. The technology might flourish in these places.And finally, if the retaliation really starts in the US, there might be some anti-american governments out there (Iran?) that would embrace the technology just for the pleasure of making US government life harder. And by safe account understand "an addresses generated in another wallet file". That's because if you just ask from a new address from the backup, it will get from the pool of addresses that was already there, so the thief will have it too. E aceitar bitcoins como doações é particularmente fácil se a instituição não se importar em deixar todo mundo saber quanto recebe. Basta publicar um endereço... Cuidado com meios de pagamento reversíveis (paypal, cartão de crédito...)Não sei, mas se um dia crescer muito, creio que será proibido, ou no mínimo super-vigiado e taxado. Se eles proíbem até envio de dinheiro pelos correios, é porque querem poder rastrear tudo o que faz cada um de seus súditos.Sugestão: se forem criar uma exchange brasileira, façam na linha do BitMarket.eu e não na linha do MtGox, ou seja, façam de forma que a exchange em si não tenha uma conta bancária brasileira para ser fechada. E hospedem fora do Brasil. Imposto é roubo. Ninguém tem o direito de arrancar o fruto do trabalho honesto de alguém a força. E dar "serviços" em troca não muda o fato de que esses serviços foram pagos com dinheiro roubado, mesmo que os serviços venham a ser "decentes" - e a ciência econômica demonstra que um monopólio nunca terá os mesmos incentivos para prestar um bom serviço que o livre mercado.É o típico comportamento de uma máfia, te obrigar a pagar por "serviços". Se é mal, não é necessário.Engraçado que esse mesmo tipo de argumentação era usada pra defender a manutenção da escravidão. "Os escravos não serão capazes de se manter por conta própria, não tem o nível de conhecimento necessário.".Hoje, não temos que entregar mais 100% do que produzimos aos nossos senhores, mas eu por ex. tenho que entregar mais de 50% aqui onde moro. Se ser obrigado a entregar uma parcela do seu trabalho a um grupo armado que te ameaça não é uma forma parcial de escravidão, não sei o que é então. A competitive edge is not a property. It cannot be "stolen". If you are the only baker in a town, that's a competitive edge you've got. But you can't forbid me to open a bakery in the same town.Intellectual property is a monopoly, and there should be no monopoly at all.
You need to change every full-client implementation, not only miners. The question to ask is what happened to gold prices in periods/places where its possession was forbidden.For ex., I know that in the 30s in the US, the government forbid the possession of gold. But I've never seen an analysis of whatever happened to its price. That's a good point. But then, can you prove the hand-signature on a paper was really done by me? Even something signed with a cryptographic private key is not 100% sure, as the key could have leaked.Theoretically speaking, if you accept the eula, you're accepting its terms. Proving you accepted it is another story. That's why trials should be done by courts whose decision both parties in a dispute directly or indirectly agreed to respect. No, not really... I was exactly trying to say that making an unauthorized copy is a form of trespassing. Even if you were given the right to enter the couple's house. Actually, even if they authorize you to watch the video, but said: "Don't copy". If you copy, you'd be doing an unauthorized use of their property. I have to disagree there. It doesn't matter the format of a contract, as long as it is voluntary and explicit.The same thing you said about a sequence of bytes could be said about a sequence of words printed on a piece of paper. Both are valid forms of contract.Well, that's what eulas are for...But you have no right to use their properties without their consent, and that includes making a copy. If you didn't get the owners authorization to make that copy, the act of copying is a violation of their property rights. But then, if you pass the video to somebody else, the couple cannot make the same accusation against this third party. No, the GFW blocks Tor itself. It doesn't need a whitelist. It just need toBlacklist all public tor relaysPay some low-wage Chinese to go on creating Google accounts and tracking each tor bridge as soon as it's up, to block them as well.They are already doing this. Unless there has been some new progress on tor capability of hiding from the GFW that I'm not aware of. Eulas do qualify. To those who sign them, obviously. If you get a copy of a program for free with no eula, nobody has any recourse against you.That's the main problem with IP. You may try to simulate them with contracts. But contracts can not be extended to someone who has never signed it. It's like a marriage contract which predicts punishment to the lover of the unfaithful spouse! The permission has to be explicit. And how do you make them understand this when they come to bust you? It would be nice if someone distributed Bitcoin+Tor bundles (or bitcoin+I2P bundles) previously configured. It would be even nicer if the bitcoin protocol could send URLs when broadcasting peers addresses (can it be done right now?). This way, .onion and .i2p URLs could be sent instead of IP addresses.I think the most authoritarian governments might start trying to block bitcoin by blocking its bootstrap methods... Provas logicamente coesas de que a iniciação de coerção só piora a vida em sociedade já existem aos montes. Estude economia austríaca. Leia artigos de Hans-Hermann Hoppe sobre a ética da propriedade privada.O melhor site em português para encontrar tais textos: http://www.mises.org.br Not to mention that if you accessed the computer of someone without this person's authorization, it's a violation of his property rights.In other words, if I don't authorize you to copy my wallet, there's no legitimate way you can do it. I think exchanges of the type of bitmarket.eu and OTC have more chances of succeeding in the long run, and can be more numerous. That's because the exchange owner doesn't need to keep any link to the standard banking system. It's more "decentralized" if you will. In many countries, that's mandatory for the exchange survival.So, if I were you, I'd go for this type of exchange, with the flexibility to use any currency and multiple payment methods, as well as escrow. I was thinking on suggesting the same thing. Exchange owners, please, do this Wikileaks-like insurance! Seriously? I was not aware of this. Have they at least tried explaining this contradictory positon of theirs?It's quite weird. They were among the first to accept bitcoin donations, back when bitcoins weren't worth that much, and now that it has proven its value, they don't want anymore? Have you tried contacting them before coming here to rant?This forum is about bitcoin. You're on the Bitcoin Discussion board. This is not MtGox support forum.Of course that if you're actually scammed by a bitcoin merchant, letting the entire community know about it is a nice thing to do. But at least try to solve the problem directly with the merchant and only come here after it's clear you've been scammed. I'm pretty sure that's not your case. Que diferença faz o local do pool?Traduções talvez, mas bom, em geral quem é nerd o suficiente para minerar, entende inglês. They can make it painful. For ex., they could block all bootstrap methods (IRC and known nodes). They could filter packets, screwing those who do not encrypt their connections.Tor is already blocked, so it wouldn't help much either.I guess it would be as much as hard as it is for these non technical people to access forbidden web content... they would have to find a proxy which hasn't yet been taken down. The great firewall of China blocks Tor.
You mean your server refuses HTTP even if the client "insists", right? I ask that because there are some malicious Tor exit nodes which try to switch the connection from HTTPS to HTTP. They wouldn't get the first URL parameter, but if you just generate another they would get this new one. +1 They would need the same amount of leg work to trace transactions happening on free addresses. Actually it would be much harder, since there would be no institutions cooperating.It would all be a question of how easy it is to live using more undeclared bitcoins than declared ones. That could work as a double-edged sword for big corporations actually, as people wanting to spend undeclared money would turn to smaller business who don't collaborate with government. Forcing big business to use only declared addresses. Taxation suits big business, as it mostly rules out the small ones. They would cooperate.But yeah, that wouldn't be totally enforceable. The banking system is 100% traced and yet people manage to avoid taxes today. I've once thought about it too. They could taint addresses and control them. They could also force miners not to accept transactions from non-declared addresses, but that would be particularly difficult as it would require an international coordination.Meaning, there would be a set of "declared" addresses within a jurisdiction that government would trace and tax, and a set of undeclared addresses still free. Transferring between these two sets could be strongly taxed instead of strictly forbidden, this way authorizing money to cross borders somehow.That wouldn't make bitcoin a perfect taxation tool though. People would still use free addresses, as they do undeclared cash transfers. E no mais, não acredito nisso.... mesmo que a barbaridade do SUS continuasse num Brasil sem proibição a entorpecentes, acho pouquíssimo provável que o estado passasse a gastar mais. Até porque o SUS já trata de viciados hoje, e o ambiente de proibição cria drogas mais fortes e perigosas à saúde do que as que seriam comuns num livre mercado. E você certamente não está colocando na balança os elevadíssimos custos não monetários da guerra contra as drogas. Já pra mim é uma questão ética. Nem você, nem eu, nem ninguém tem o direito de apontar uma arma pra cabeça de um indivíduo simplesmente porque ele quer se drogar, ou ajudar alguém a fazê-lo voluntariamente. O mesmo, óbvio, vale em relação a obrigar um indivíduo a pagar pelo tratamento médico de alguém. Antes de mais nada, parabéns pela iniciativa!Não entendi direito... Por favor, corrija-me onde estiver errando:Ladrão rouba a senha paypal de um brasileiro.Ladrão transfere reais via paypal para tua conta paypal em dólares.Você transfere seus dólares paypal para sua conta bancária e posteriormente para o MtGox, na conta MtGox do Ladrão.Vítima do ladrão vê uma transação estranha em seu paypal e exige estorno.Paypal arranca dinheiro da sua conta paypal em dólares e transfere à vítima do Ladrão.Você perde dinheiro, mas Ladrão continua com sua grana na conta MtGox (se ele já converteu para bitcoins e sacou, é tarde demais mesmo pra tentar uma solução junto aos admins do MtGox) They are not actually used anymore as currency, afaik. Their only value is as "souvenir". You won't lose them as long as MtGox doesn't lose the keys for the deposit address. Except that, in the worst possible scenario (all miners stop accepting free transactions from now on) your coins will be "locked" until somebody provides you means of adding a fee. But there are many miners still accepting free transactions I think, so don't worry, it will just take a while but it will get included in a block. Oh, you're talking about GDP growth then... GDP is indeed a dangerous statistic, and politicians desires to maximize it no matter what produce stupid behaviors as you point out.Just a correction, I believe GDP actually measures what is consumed, not what is produced. If something is produced but saved instead of consumed, I don't think it enters the GDP. Oh, then you might have a problem. I don't know what does that mean, I hope MtGox won't simply delete the keys.... maybe they will delete the association of that address to your account, but then it can be recreated manually. (what's the point in making a deposit address temporary?)I would contact them. The protocol allows you to add fees to a transaction. You just have to "double-spend" it, but on the second spent, add a fee. Miners will add the aying transaction and the other one will be rejected as a double-spend.That said, I'm not aware of any client implementation that allows you to do that.... so, unless you want to implement it on your own, you can only wait. It might take days to be accepted. A vantagem é que você terá mais conexões, mais rápido. Isso assumindo que você não está escondendo teu IP e que você não bloqueia o bootstrap via IRC - ou seja, assumindo que você usa o comportamento default. Can you locate your transaction in the blockexplorer or on the unconfirmed pool?That at least tells your transaction has been taken into account. So, as long as you don't lose your wallet, you should be fine.I don't know what's causing your problem, though. If it isn't the clock, isn't it maybe network connection? Do you see a reasonable amount of connections in both clients? Aren't both behind the same NAT and therefore only one getting income connections? I'm not going to write much, but the OP misunderstands the meaning of economic growth.Economic growth doesn't mean consuming more Earth resources and throwing things away.It means satisfying people needs and wishes (demands) more and better, and that must take the existent amount of resources (offer) into consideration. Basically economic growth means improving people's life, in what concern the access to scarce resources. Somebody once suggested that only those concerned by a block would need to keep it entirely, meaning, those who have money on inputs of that block. Miners would only have to keep the headers and maybe the most recent blocks as cache.I'm not sure if that could work easily with the current implementation, as I don't know if it is possible to ask the content of a block backwards until the request reaches the sender of a transaction. But with some improvements maybe that could be done. I don't think income may change people's probability to become criminals in a significant way. It will at most change the type of crime people commit.Low income people tend to have low education and thus, when criminals, will practice "stupid crimes", like robbing people on the street or other things that look more violent.Higher income people tend to have better education and so, when criminals, will go for more elaborate kinds of crime, like these hackers behind DDoS or those who steal credit cards. They don't look that violent, but I think the damage they cause to society may be even worse, and they are much harder to catch. hehe, don't dream, Hugo Chavez loves having control over Venezuela's currency in order to finance his "bolivarian socialism" with money printing when petrodollars aren't enough. They've faced more than 30% annual inflation recently. He started some price control schemes. If Venezuela adopts bitcoin, it will be because its people will do it on their own to protect from inflation, not because of their dictator. If you bought bitcoins with paypal you should be fine, it's the seller who take some risks. You'll find many threads about paypal here. 
Not paypal, no. They've forbidden the selling of bitcoins. And even for those who don't care, selling bitcoins for paypal is somehow dangerous since paypal transfers are reversible while bitcoin transfers are not. I have a very good and a bad news about this subject.The good news is: The Seasteading Institute will accept bitcoin donations! They send me their address by mail: 1FexWDptSXFWsZvdLoBckZgVFWytHjsSu8I've asked them to add it to their donation page so you don't need to trust my word only.The bad news is about the account I had opened in November in MyBitcoin to store the donations. It had received 50BTC from one donor. But that was a while ago, and I just cannot remember the password.  Yeah, I know, shame on me!I tried creating another account in order to ask them help to recover this money. I sent them two messages but got no answer, and since a few days they have this message on their site:Note: We are experiencing growing pains. Support will be degraded until we are able to upgrade our systems. Thank you for your patience.I hope to be able to contact them once they are reachable again and recover these 50BTC. I apologize to whoever did that donation, I'm really sorry. Como você pretende balancear oferta e demanda no seu site?Digo, se você usa a cotação em dólar, e não uma cotação própria, você pode ter dificuldades se o volume de vendas não for igual ao volume de compras. Caberia a você trazer ou mandar as bitcoins para fora. Você vai ter gastos com transferências internacionais, conversões de moeda etc.Se você fizer sua própria cotação, de acordo com a oferta e demanda por bitcoins no seu site, aí outras pessoas ajustarão automaticamente o preço quando ele desviar muito do preço de outras exchanges, você não precisaria se preocupar. Tenho a impressão que você poderia ter menos custos e riscos fazendo assim. Not being a democracy by itself is not a problem. It seems things in Singapore work better than most places in the world.The only bad thing I heard is that they have some draconian laws regarding behaviors... like, throwing garbage on the street may put you in jail. Drugs, prostitution etc are severely punished and so on. There are important changes since that version, including bug fixes. I recommend you updating, but as said above, make backups of your wallet always.  I wonder if anybody has ever calculated the chances of a vote making any difference in elections. I bet the chances are compared with those of winning a lottery, if not worse. You probably have much more chances of dying in your way to the voting center than of having your vote making any difference. This is just a matter of definition. Originally the words inflation and deflation were used only for the monetary offer, but eventually people started to confuse it with price changes, and today it is the most common meaning of the word.Trying to fight that is like trying to fight the distortion the word "liberal" has suffered in US, saying that leftists are not liberals.Just specify "monetary inflation" when you're talking and avoid issues. You have two options:Convert all or most of your salary right after receiving it, and then during the month spend the bought BTC. This allows you to lose less with dollar devaluation since you hold it for very short periods only. It would be particularly interesting when dollar inflation rates start to be measured monthly instead of yearly.Just use BTC as a savings account. You don't need to spend it often, just when you want to spend your savings. Pretty much like many people do with gold or other investment assets. I really don't think it's much a problem of loss of faith. In Brazil, from 1980 to 1994, the monetary base expanded 2.303.797.693.883%. Yes, more than two trillion percent. There is no faith that could have kept the value of such money... @chodpaba, the M1, in the same period, expanded a lot less - 1.656.853.722.660% (1,6 billion)-, meaning that the multipliers we were talking about decreased considerably. They actually prevented the damage from being worse, in a certain way. I did not read the article, but, at some extent, yes, inflation does intensify economic inequalities. It's not difficult to see it actually. Don't you think the variables "level of income" and "percentage of owned assets in the form of government currency or an equivalent" have any sort of relation?In general the most poor are those who lose the most with inflation.The new money is not distributed equally. Banks, for instance, receive it before most others. @Chodpaba, most of the time these multipliers are constant, and even when they change, the amount of inflation they can cause is limited, if they go too high, the system collapses, and those who pushed those multipliers too far go bankrupt. What doesn't have hard limits is the amount of new money the central bank can create.It doesn't matter if each new dollar created by the Fed will become $10 or $100 or $1000 new dollars when passed through all multipliers. What matters is the relative growth of the monetary offer, if it is 1%, 10% or 100%. And this relative change to the monetary offer is the same relative change the Fed does to the monetary base when all multipliers remain constant.It's like analyzing the complexity of functions in computer science. Constant multipliers don't really matter, what you have to look is the format of the curve, if it's N, N^2, 2^N etc. And in the realm of money, it is the central bank who shapes the curve. OK, I grant you that, you may be right. I've never read such texts from the imperial family.But not this. Labor laws do no good, and the stronger they are, the more damage they do. Labor is a contract between parties, nobody else has anything to do with how these parties do it, pretty much like marriage actually.The CLT was always a problem, it's a quite authoritarian set of labor laws.That's a pessimist view, but you might be right. I just hope it doesn't get to that point.... if it gets, well, I am screwed!  I've already criticized government so much out on the open of the internet, that I would probably go to jail the day I step in a Brazil "more strict than the military [dictatorship]". People asking for more free lunches. I wonder when they will understand that there's no such thing... No, the situation does not require that the government keeps releasing hell on its victims. It can stop printing. It will "only" have to find another way to fund its activities, as well as re-index its debt if it's indexed on the hiperinflationary currency.And regarding the toilet paper example, if there's no money printing, prices will adjust, and you would be able to buy it.As Mises said, in the long run, any quantity of money is enough.Welcome!  I don't know any example of hyperinflation which hasn't being caused by massive increase of the monetary base... I lived in hyperinflation when a kid, and the cause was pure money printing... can you cite an example when people just lost faith in government's currency, without this one printing it like crazy before? Massive withdraw of money from the fractional reserve system would most likely cause deflation of the monetary offer, with banks going bankrupted and all the M1 created by them vanishing... All monetary aggregates are multipliers of the M0. If the M0 remains constant, these aggregates can only cause inflation/deflation if the multiplier changes, for example, if the compulsory decreases, that will increase the M1. But that's the only way and it's a limited effect. These aggregates multipliers are most of the time constants. And when they are constant, the only way the monetary offer can increase is if the monetary base increases. That's the true source of inflation. But eventually most of them do stop. It just takes them a while - and lots of misery and suffering from the people they control - to accept reality. Stop printing means they either have to cut expanses or increase taxes, probably a strong mix of both.I think the only example of government that did not stop was Zimbabwe, at least the only one I am aware about. They printed so much the people themselves abandoned the currency, and the government couldn't enforce its use any more. Yeah, he was so much for freedom he kept the majority of the population as slaves... Brazil was one of the last countries to abolish slavery, and the monarchy has its fault on it.No, it was not. Take the military dictatorship for ex. They were control freaks, central planning at its ultimate level. Most of Brazil huge inefficient state companies were created during their time. The "economic miracle" was nothing more than lots of government spending fueled by debt - which Brazilians have to carry until today - and money printing, which basically destroyed the country economy during the 80s with the hyperinflation it caused. Brazil income discrepancies are a fruit of the hyperinflation: http://www.mises.org.br/Article.aspx?id=313Do you mean Vargas, that fascist criminal who cursed Brazil with... the CLT!? Yeah, they suck... but at least those corrupt parasites kind of protected the country from PT. Imagine if PT had absolute majority...I agree with that. Actually most of the late 20 years economic improvements the country has lived are due to the changes promoted during the period of that crook, plus the end of hyperinflation of course.You'll find this in France, I can say for experience. But there may be places that suit you better. The guy that answered that you have to see for yourself is correct. You mean the best times were when most of the population was enslaved (monarchy), or when government authoritarianism and central planning would make the current socialistic government look like a libertarian dream?Geez man, not that things are nice now, but they were way worse on those times.Now, about your question, I don't know if I can answer it, since I don't know you well enough. I don't think you really want to go to northern Europe... it's frozen!! But less cold parts of Europe may be interesting if you want to run away from the violence. I live on the south of France, and the winter here is not that harsh. Ordinary violence barely exists, and when something happens, is normally a theft done hidden, never a quick kidnapping as standard in Brazil.Now, if you want to make money, probably Europe is not the best shot. How far are you willing to go? Have you looked Singapore? Their government is somehow authoritarian on behavior standards, but not as much as Dubai for instance, and in Singapore the economy is impressive. I read somewhere that 16% of its population are dollar-millionaires.
That's what I said above... (maybe I should have dropped the dot or write 9.000,00 to make it clearer) For BTC to "stop growing" in comparison to USD, the Fed would have to stop printing money... I wouldn't expect that.  You can already buy amazon products with bitcoins, with no fees.People are already working for bitcoins, there are even sites for bitcoin job offers.The conversion fees problem will eventually decrease. And, well, bitcoin is a much better money anyway... eventually what you save from inflation will probably compensate the conversion fees. That makes more sense. I don't know why we have to follow this ISO standards anyway.Regarding he standard implementation, it doesn't need to change. Or if it's ever going to, it could allow the user to select the unit he wants to be displayed. For those who still doubt a Fox show can be truly libertarian, maybe these two short videos can convince you:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Af5KJ2aD8F0http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uFoNcxp3okM That'd be the equivalent of not having a change at all, I believe. And, well, honestly, I don't know why it was implemented like this. Unless there's something in the protocol that forces an address to be completely spent when it's used as input, I don't see much utility in this change feature. If absolutely nobody else has access to it, if/when you die, your wealth will die with you... Seriously? The guy says such a thing and yet receives attention?Stop feeding the Keynesian troll. Yeah, pretty much like the term liberal, which now means leftist in the US, and if you want to talk about original liberals, you have to say classical-liberal to avoid confusion. +1 Have you ever watched at least parts of Judge Napolitano show? Or John Stossel?Despite their strong conservative bias, Fox does seem to have a tiny space for libertarian ideas. I guess that's mainly because they make good opponents for leftists, but still. Because they're older. The one in the first position has been there for over an year, according to the age of some comments. Libertarianism, as I understand, is about the non-agression principle. And that's incompatible with any form of state. The difference between minarchists and social-democrats is quantitative, not qualitative, as is the difference between libertarians and statists... but well, just words anyway. Is this really feasible? One thing is to produce a hash that has a certain number of zeros in its beginning, another thing is to produce an exact hash from something else. To me it sounds as likely as brute forcing against cryptography, but well, I don't really understand all these cryptography stuff so I'm asking.... That's a better idea. People implementing light-weight clients should take that in consideration, and store at least the blocks from which they have money on their wallets. People providing offline bitcoins like bitbill should also either encode the entire block on the bill, or at least allow the block to be downloaded from a server of them. No, not really. If you have "infinite" block space, it doesn't matter that you're forcing people to move around their coins once in a while, the transaction fees to do so will probably be only 0,01µBTC each transaction. They would remain "that low".Why not? With limited space, transactions would compete for it, and the only way to do so is by offering higher fees.I'm not sure that's such an issue... comparing with bandwidth and processing power efficiency, storage space will probably not be such a problem. I don't get it why there's Libertarian and Anarchist as different options. Libertarians are anarchists.... or by anarchist you mean the communist type? Concerning the whole chain size, I don't think that will be a major problem, compared to the bandwidth required.And if it ever becomes annoying for some miners, they can try offering bounties to the owners of the oldest coins to move them to a new address. It can be done without the owner of the coins having to identify himself.There is one major barrier though: some private keys are lost. These coins won't ever be moved again, and there isn't anyway to verify that the coins are really lost or someone is just lying about it. Considering that people probably lost private keys from the early days of bitcoin, when the coins were mostly worthless, I'd say there isn't much room for pruning the chain.  Considering the proposition of demurrage itself, I don't like it very much, for the following reasons:All it does it does is that it forces people to move money around, so that transaction fees are collected and the chain is pruned. If the transaction fees remain near a satoshi, that doesn't add much to miners. It would be better to make sure transaction fees won't go that low.It introduces a completely new and big feature/constraint to a system that doesn't necessarily need it. (transaction fees and maximum block size are already there)I can't see a way to make it automatically adjustable or "market-adaptive"... and hard-coded, arbitrary rules are not good.I still prefer an adaptive maximum limit to the block size, that creates some artificial block space scarcity on peak hours of the day or peak days of the week/month/year. It is not a major new feature, and although the formula to be defined is arbitrary, there are no arbitrary constant values. And it may guarantee a minimum incentive to miners. Here you imply that someone could have "billions worth" of profit by exploiting the >50% vulnerability, but as I said multiple times, that is not that simple.You can't steal all bitcoins by having control of the chain. All you can do is double-spend. And that's fraud. You'd be vulnerable to the same risks anyone has when committing fraud. If you try to fraud a billion worth contract of any kind, you'll probably sleep with the fishes. And the amount doesn't even need to be that high. The chances of making profit out of such kind of attack are extremely low.And a non-profit oriented attacker couldn't steal billions worth of money either. It could temporarily pause the network until developers and miners find a way to get around him. The more money at stake, the stronger the incentive to get this scumbag government ostracized from the network.There really should be a FAQ about the true risks of a >50% attack.
That doesn't make much sense. They should charge less, precisely because including transactions with old coins help them pruning the chain. To the good listener, half a word is enough.If you can't understand the implications of everything that was repeatedly explained here on this topic, I don't think there's much more to be said. See my first two posts on this thread, please. Yeah, but then, he would have to pay fees to sell them. Wouldn't that represent losses? (well, it's true that if BTC value keeps raising like it does then he won't be losing anything ) Yes. Well, I haven't tested the wallet yet, but I tested with some text files, and when I changed them using the soft link, the Wuala software would show me the changes. I logged to my Wuala account from another computer and I could also see the modified file there.One thing I haven't managed to figure out about Wuala so far is if the files they store on my computer are already encrypted, or if they are only encrypted before sending to the network, but on my disk they are unencrypted. If it's the latter, I'd have to use a second layer of encryption (Wuala+Truecrypt maybe?) if I don't want my wallet file to be store unencrypted anywhere.  What exactly do you think drove the price of gold up? I mean, I don't  really see any stores out there accepting gold as payment... This is really powerful.A question: is the mining task correctly prioritized not to annoy the user (lower priority than anything else)? The CPU going to 100% won't be a problem if the user continues to be able to use his computer normally. But if the mining process has the same priority as other user processes, that might piss him off, with reason.I don't even know if you can set priorities in javascript like that. The idea is good, but relying on a third-party service boils down to relying in the user capacity to protect his password. Actually, the same applies to any sort of encryption. That's the greatest problem, IMHO.I think that the best way to secure something is to have a dedicated device for it. A sort of small smartphone that's not actually a phone, just a device to run a bitcoin client. Its connection to the internet would be limited to the bitcoin protocol and nothing else, no browser or anything that could compromise its security. No interaction with other computers, except through the bitcoin protocol.Maybe someday we'll see someone manufacturing such device.  Since everything is encrypted before being sent to Wuala, is there a problem in just making my wallet.dat a soft link to a file inside the directory structure Wuala automatically created on my home dir?I've tested and it seems to work. It seems easier than making all these filters and everything. This is indeed an intelligent way of buying BTC. But, what if you receive more orders than you can afford? I mean, this can't be a long-term service... That's really interesting, indeed. What he predicts is still unethical and bad for the economy, but definitely much less worse than what we have nowadays. Let's hope that's the path governments choose to take, instead of just stupid brute repression à la war on drugs. So that psycho works for the central bank? I was not aware. I don't think Keynesians argue that the deflationary spiral would be bad for bitcoin, but rather for society. You know, without their wisdom commanding us, we are nothing but ignorant people who would voluntary choose self-destruction. So, the government must intervene to kill such threat. I thought about it, but if it's true, he should not have claimed everything was done under consent. He should have said the truth... or hiring a prostitute is punished more severely by NY state than trying to rape someone? Just answering your question A, later I come for the rest of the "essay" You must understand that nothing has intrinsic value. Value is a subjective opinion people have on stuff, not an intrinsic attribute of stuff themselves.That said, please realize it's not impossible, although unlikely, that gold's value reach zero one day. All it takes is people to find better and cheaper substitutes for everything gold does. Personally, I think distributed cryptocurrencies can be such substitutes in what concerns gold utility as a store of value, but that only long years will tell.Now, comparing bitcoin particular with gold, of course gold brings much more security as investment. We can rest assure that, no matter what, the value of this ancient precious metal won't go to zero from night to day. We can count on its historical value, which bitcoin, being such a young project, obviously doesn't have.But then, what did you expect? You can't invent something 5.000 years retroactively.  That's the most important, but besides that, there are the advantages others explained already, mainly the fact that bitcoin is decentralized by design. To accept gold payments, you either have to trust a third party - which will probably be vulnerable to a government, and then bye bye privacy/security - or you'll have to accept physical gold plus silver and copper for small changes, meaning you'll have to find ways of protecting this physical gold, not to mention the hassle and limitations (cost!) on transportation.Protecting data is certainly easier (cheaper!) than protecting anything physical. Data may be backed up, a physical commodity cannot, meaning if your safe gets destroyed, you lose. Data may be encrypted, meaning that even if someone has access to it, he would also need a password. And with the existent techniques to create hidden encrypted volumes, even torturing you to get the password may not be enough to get everything you have. I haven't read the entire topic, I'm just answering directly the OP. The following charts should make it pretty much clear why you would prefer using BTC instead of gold: Speeder, look at the exchange rates. Look how much bitcoin went up in a year. Of course a precious metal which has been with humanity for thousands of years is more recognized than an open source project less than 3 years old, but, seriously, look how much it's growing! Don't you think you're way too pessimist? Seriously man, stop with this freaking out about people "having to trade with bitcoins!" for it to be useful.How many people do you know that trade with gold? When was the last time you bought something using this precious metal at a grocery store?Gold is practically useless for trade nowadays, and look how its price increases over time (particularly during uncertain times). The main purpose of gold is to store value, and bitcoin is a better store of value than anything physical could ever be. And, besides that, as a bonus, it can be easily used for trade by those who have a particular interest in it.People paying or not most of their bills with bitcoins is not at all a necessary condition for its success. The very weusecoins page let it bold clear:  "Most bitcoin users don't mine! Bitcoin mining is a business and very competitive."Why is it a problem that miners are generating and selling? Shouldn't we thank them for providing us with cheaper coins? Regarding those who waste energy with CPU mining, then you're right. I think we should remove CPU mining from the standard client, or at least put a very strong warning against it.
This is not only psychological. In case you don't solve a block and the difficult increases, I guess we can say you would earn less with solo mining.I'd say solo mining is interesting only for those who can be sure to generate more than one block at each difficulty period. Although I don't tend to agree with leftists, they are right when they say US military spendings are much more outrageous than welfare.Welfare uses unethical means for helping people who frequently don't deserve it, causing bad consequences for the economy.Military spending uses unethical means for killing and controlling innocent people, causing bad consequences for the economy. The OP has a point. The incentive is crystal clear. It's impossible to know how many women change their decisions with the help of such incentives, but certainly in a population of 300million there may be some. Some women hate the idea of quitting smoking during pregnancy, if you add a financial benefit for them not to, it may change their mind, why not?Anyways, I believe there are worse consequences of welfare than this one particularly.If you are among those who think state welfare is fundamental in helping those in greater need, you should consider watching this video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwTDKt_k9kQ This is true. But, unless you're part of these leftists, still, no reason to be ashamed.So, what are your speculative theories about it? Did he really try to rape the girl, was it an orchestrated coup?My guess is that he was expecting a prostitute and the poor woman had to beat him really hard for him to realize it was not her.  Honestly, this is silly, at least. Imagine if I were going to feel ashamed every time someone who born inside the same imaginary lines I was born did something horrible... haha, I'd never leave home anymore! Bitcoin volatility would make it extremely risky to do so with investment goals. And just spending the money like that is quite dangerous...On the other hand, it is true that they charge nothing and the last time I saw they had no ads... you have a point there, they could be financing themselves with a chunk of people's money. That would be fraud, since it's not advertised as such. But, if they just spend a small percentage, they might get away with it for a long while. Unless - trying to be nice to your professor here - she meant that in the sense of "governments will outlaw this so they can keep inflating their currency on their favor". Then she might have a point, although I think it's not easy at all to outlaw something as bitcoin. Have you ever seen people loaning bitcoins enough to make a fractionate reserve anywhere?  Comparing Newton to most economic professors of today - particularly one that thinks leaving the gold standard was necessary and good - is a major offense to the name of such a revolutionary scientist. +1 Minar con CPU es puro desperdicio de energía... debes utilizar una GPU si quieres tener alguna chance. This is off-topic and should not be on this board.Answering the OP, what makes you think government could protect us from such a thing?I've seen people evoking the scenario of an apocalyptic meteor in order to defend the initiation of violence... they just ignore that no government can stop an apocalyptic meteor outside the realm of Hollywood. Your example is pretty much the same thing. I was having this problem a second ago, and when I clicked to answer you everything got fixed.But, I need to access the forum through https://174.143.149.98/ - which automatically appeared in the RSS links by the way. When I try bitcoin.org it doesn't work. Nothing has inherent value. Value is subjective, it's an opinion people have on stuff, not an inherent attribute of stuff themselves. And if you think BTC have no value, why would you buy them? Keep your pounds in such case... Seriously? I did not know that! No wonder why such an incompetent "economist" won it then...haha, the "economy Nobel prize" is given by a central bank.. how ironic... Monetary stability (which normally implies in price deflation) is good for the economy.And besides that, who would want bitcoins if they inflate constantly? If you have the choice of storing your wealth in something that is constantly created or in something which offer is stable, which would you prefer? Sorry, I was just reading too fast, it was not intentional. I repeat that's not about taking anything from anyone, quite the contrary. It's about stop coercively taking people's resources. These health care state programs you mention are financed through theft. That's not only extremely unethycal as it is also counter-productive from an economical point of view.And if you really care about helping those in greater need, you should really consider this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwTDKt_k9kQAnd in this video he doesn't even consider the future improvements that lower government spendings can cause to all, particularly the most poor.  Either they will raise the limit, or the Fed will print more money. Paul Krugman doesn't deserve credit. Just for you to have an idea of how bad he is, he still believes in the broken window fallacy, something already demonstrated as false by Bastiat in the 19th century! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QG4jhlPLVVsHe has been defied by Robert Murphy to a debate, if he accepts, a charity institution would earn something like $60K, and Krugman hasn't yet accepted. http://www.thepoint.com/campaigns/campaign-0-1240
It is not about taking the weelchair out from under anyone. No one wants that.It's all about stop pointing a gun at someone who doesn't want to put a weelchair under someone else.A nice short presentation for you to understand the principles better: http://www.isil.org/resources/philosophy-of-liberty-english.swf It is perfectly possible to implement fractional reserves with BTC or any other currency. That's not quite accurate.What causes the inflation in our world today are central banks, when they inflate the monetary base.Fractional reserves are direct responsible for inflation only when the compulsory decreases. When it increases, it causes deflation. In a period where the compulsory is fixed, fractional reserves are nothing but a constant multiplier applied to any change the central bank promotes. If the central bank doesn't inflate nor deflate, a constant-compulsory fractional reserve system won't inflate nor deflate either.You see what I mean? I'm not talking about tax evasion, I'm talking about places with very low taxes.Estimates say that a concrete submarine with living space equivalent to a 60m2 apartment could cost something between $60k to $100k to build. It's not that expensive.The challenge is for sure to come up with a "business plan" that could sustain a village and eventually grow to a city. White-collar labor is for sure a possibility, and there are others. "Medical tourism" is a big possibility if you consider existent medical laws in most countries. Drugs/prostitution/gambling tourism too, a sort of improved Las Vegas. Anyway, there are several possibilities. And the big deal is to start. Once the first steps are taken, more industries and services would be attracted by the economic freedom of the place.These treaties don't concern what happens in the other country. It seems you see the seasteading idea as something to run away from prosecutions in your home land. It is not it. If all you want is to run away, just go to Rio de Janeiro. Well, I see many potential benefits, yes. You should watch the talk I linked you to. There are also those tax-havens which, due to low taxes, become a very interesting place for investors and entrepreneurs, like Hong-Kong for example. Maybe tax-haven is not the appropriate word in English. I mean "country with very low taxes".There is also the example of Monaco, where millionaires go to live in order to avoid certain taxes. Their business outside of Monaco keep being taxed, but their personal income and wealth not that much.The idea of seasteading is that people would move to live there. And by the way, it's not meant to be "for rich only". The idea is to create prosperity for all. Obviously that in the beginning poor people will not be able to afford floating houses, but as times goes by and technology advances, the "ocean tax" becomes smaller, while government taxes quite the contrary...What armies do places like Monaco, Lichtenstein, Singapore and others have?Maybe, maybe not. I think it's something worth trying. Way easier to achieve more freedom through this path than through elections, anyway.An alternative to avoid this danger, at least in the beginning while these floating-nations are not internationally recognized, is to use a convenience flag. This limits your freedom but not that much, since there are small governments out there who make this "convenience-flag" business an important source of revenue. Once the city is big enough, it may abandon the convenience flag and declare sovereignty.Take the example of the Women on Waves boat. It has already been forbid to dock on ports of conservative nations, but it was never military attacked. Why do you think it would be shut down fast, the tax haven? Not necessarily... maybe they would be forced to cooperate concerning people/money from other nations, but no more than the existent tax-havens already are.And the new nation could be free of all sort of stupid regulations that jam other economies.Different nations could be created with specific purposes. For example, a nation with no labor laws could succeed in the Mediterranean or maybe west of Portugal, due to the draconian labor laws of Europe in general... a nation with no health regulations could provide decent and cheaper health care to patients from US and so on.Once the engineering is feasible, you have a total new "startup sector" for nations. Different nations with different political systems could pop up, and the best would survive and grow. If you have time, watch this talk done by the creator of the seasteading project. It's quite interesting.Concerning costs, there are big challenges there, but it may be brought down with some techniques. For example, using concrete instead of steel - heavier, but apparently much less expensive to maintain. Another approach are submarines instead of boats: in the case of a storm, you sink. For larger scales, there are those breakwaters, but that's for a big city only. Not necessarily land: http://seasteading.org/ This has been discussed before. The problem is not Solo Mining, it's CPU mining. Nowadays, that's pure waste.There are others who also think the option should be removed from the standard client or at least have a warning as you said. Probably something will be done concerning this. Well said OP. Bitcoin is just an extremely volatile asset at the moment, and will keep like this for a while. Prices raise and fall fast. It's not the first time, it won't be the last. These are no bubbles, nobody is lending to invest in it, it goes up and down in days instead of years, people don't go massively bankrupt or unemployed after each price drop and so on.Bubbles are a much more serious thing. They are the fruit of bad allocation of capital (malinvestments) over long periods. We should not mix the terms. To be a government it has to do one of the following at least:Coercively maintain a monopoly, particularly a monopoly on ultimate decision concerning conflicts (Justice).Coercively finance themselves (taxation/theft)If they're not initiating force or threat either to tax or to keep their geographical monopoly, they can't be considered governments.Children are not slaves of their parents, who told you that? Of course legitimate use of force exists. What doesn't follow is that you have to use illegitimate force (steal from innocents, from ex.) in order to keep legitimate uses of force.A very basic video for better understanding: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHe4OQ4bY4o Then the short block reorganization will remain short. It's not the number of blocks added to it that counts, it is the number of discarded blocks. While you were offline, you didn't receive any new blocks in the bad chain, and people already started building on the other chain. The number of blocks that will be overwritten is small.I think you're not clearing understanding what I mean by long block reorganization. I mean the number of blocks that will be overwritten. It's possible to mathematically determine a number for which the probability of it happening is completely insignificant. Honest block chains splits of such length will never occur.I'm not planning into doing anything because I don't even think that will ever be needed. But I believe people would come up with a good plan if such thing happens. A whitelist of "transaction pools" to which every node could send their transactions could be a way to dodge the attack, maybe... If the attacker is only making transactions within his wallet in order to erase everybody else's and pause the network, such whitelist of transaction pools could show people which chain belongs to the attacker and which contain true transactions.No you don't. You just need consensus, as there is consensus today that "the larger chain wins", as there's consensus today in the chosen inflation model etc.Dude! I'm talking about a length that is impossible to happen honestly! That's surely much more than 5 blocks. In my first post I said of a week. But some good mathematician should do the calculus. Seeing a longer chain is different from seeing a long block reorganization. The lenght that matters in the second case is the backward length, the number of blocks who had to be discarded. Network outages won't cause you this.Again: Who's talking about anything remotely closed to a central bank here? All I've said is that it's probably possible to prove with probability calculations that an honest block chain split will not be longer than a certain constant or that it would take several thousands of years for that to happen, so you could easily classify such kind of splits as dishonest. What? I didn't get it... if I'm an honest miner, the attacker has no gain in "inviting" me.... I'll add honest blocks to his attempt of rewriting, basically I'll undermine his plans.An overtake attempt must be done entirely in secret by those trying the attack, and then suddenly released, overwriting honest blocks. If this overwrite is too long, it's clear not an honest split but an attempt of exploit the >50% vulnerability.You don't need to accept any particular authority, that can easily be a consensus, particularly if backed by good probability demonstrations. It's as much authority as the inflation control for example. True, but still that could be suspicious. Suddenly, the block chain changes to another one with lots of transactions which have never been seen by anyone? And then that happens again, and again, and again? People will quickly figure out somebody's messing around, particularly if the network is already rejecting "too long" block reorganizations. And once honest miners see the network is under this kind or political attack, they might figure out ways of blocking it. Fetokun, você não tem intenção de implementar preço dinâmico, como no MtGox? Acho que faz mas sentido numa exchange. Aí pouco te importa a volatilidade, e você poderia fornecer os dados históricos de preço, ordens à espera etc, para sites como o bitcoincharts.com fazerem os gráficos e análises bacanas deles. By the length. Honest block splits cannot, probabilistic speaking, last too long. They can pause it for as long as honest people figure out a way of identifying the attacker blocks. In the case of someone really trying to pause the network completely, it is easy. A block reorganization which sets a lot of empty blocks is clearly not honest, particularly if there are transactions with fees that were discarded.If such attack really takes place one day, full clients could set a rule saying that, if there's available block space, transactions paying more than a certain threshold in fees cannot be excluded from a block, for example. This should be a FAQ question. It's not the first time I answer this.A >50% overtake is bad, but not that bad.It only allows the attacker to erase/rewrite recent transactions, from the point he started mining in secret on. Keep in mind that he cannot create invalid transactions, like, create more money than there could possibly be at a particular address. Nor he can spend money that he never owned. So, basically, he can erase valid transactions, that's all.This attack can have two purposes:Double-spend, or "profit motivated attack". The attacker could erase transactions of his own, for which he already received the good/service he bought. That would be stealing from the vendor. Bad, yes, but how far can the attacker go with this? I hardly think he could steal more than 20 million dollars to make it worth the investment, without being caught.Just mess around, or "politically motivated attack". This could annoy bitcoin users, but valid honest transactions will be resent anyway, so this won't do much more than annoyance. Honestly, it's a silly kind of attack for a government to take, as it may end up getting some quite bad press for this.An easy way to mitigate the risk: reject any "too long" block reorganization. The "too long" constant should be determined mathematically, in order to be sure that there is no reasonable chance that such block reorganization is an honest chain split.I can't do the math on my own, but I really doubt that an honest split could last as long as a week for example. Glad you liked it.  The first time I saw this explanation was in the video of a speech done by Patri Friedman for the first Austrian Economic Seminar done in Brazil. Judging by the slide he shows while talking about such incentive structure, the author is a guy named Mancur Olson and in the slide it names "The logic of collective action". This speech, about seasteading, is quite good an inspired me. If you want to watch, it is in English, here: http://mises.org.br/FileUp.aspx?id=47
This is not an error. Government, by definition, will attract the worst elements of society who will use its unique powers on their interest. An industry cannot use guns itself to rule out competitors, but it can bribe government to pass laws which end up doing the same thing.Just think in terms of costs and incentives. Put it in numbers to make it simpler. For example, imagine there is some particular law which, if approved, would cost every 300 million US citizens the equivalent of $1 each. On the other hand, this same law would benefit a small group of 100 individuals making them earn the equivalent of $2 million each.Net = 100*2.000.000 - 300.000.000*1 = -100.000.000The entire society loses the equivalent of $100 million. It's clearly a "bad law", even if we just get the net results, ignoring the unethical aspects of income redistribution. And it's clearly a law that inevitably will be approved.That is simply because, if you're among those who would lose $1, you won't even bother knowing about such law, not to mention organize with others in order to prevent it from being approved. Those in loss will not do anything to stop the law, because the costs for doing so would largely exceed the losses they will suffer with the law.On the other hand, those earning $2 million each would probably be among the ones writing the law, and would even invest more than one million each in lobbying and organization to get such law passed. They will win.This "overtake by unscrupulous interests" is inevitable, and it is an inherent characteristic of government. So are you both among those who think miners would charitably work on a net loss for the "common good" in the long future (not entirely impossible, but I'd rather not rely on that), or do you have another idea on how will transactions fees remain above 0,01µBTC?Or maybe you believe the entire user base can expect miners to set up an agreement regarding such artificial scarcity? It's true it may happen, but I feel uneasy about it.... I'd feel more comfortable if this was set by the "client consensus" instead of a "miner consensus"... That starts to get more complex than what it needs to be, IMHO. As long as the delay of readjustment is short (24h for ex., as Gavin suggested), any formula which slightly increases the last average size should be fine. Maybe just making the increase relative instead of absolute should help with commercial holidays. Ah bon? Merde...Davout, j'ai lu quelque part sur un truc sur des "Small e-Money Issuers", valide en Europe. Je ne suis pas sûr si ça t'en sert, mais bon...  http://www.bitcoinfeedback.com ? Neither am I. Using the size of the last X blocks seems more reasonable. I'm not really convinced of that...There are some arbitrary rules regarding what a valid block is which are of interest to the entire bitcoin community, not only miners. And I'm not talking about obvious rules like no double-spending or signature validation. I mean rules like the difficult factor or block rewards, for example. These two concern the inflation control, which are of interest of every bitcoin user.Of course that miners that disagree with the current rules could always try to change them. But if users reject their blocks, the result of their mining may be worth much less as it would be a fork used by few. So, when users validate blocks, they create a strong incentive for miners to obey the entire user base consensus. If instead users accept all blocks that miners decide to build upon, then it's up to the miner consensus only to decide these kind of rules. Even if they change to something which is not really of interest to the entire user base, users will passively accept it.I think that the maximum block size is a rule of this kind. It's not only about spam. It's about creating an artificial scarcity too.It's true that miners may come up with a good agreement since this artificial scarcity is good for them, but still, it sounds dangerous to me for the entire user base to give a "blank card" to miners to decide on that entirely on their own... don't you think? Let's blame Speculators! This is not "monetary policy", maybe "transaction fee policy"...Anyways, we pay much more to miners in the form of inflation already. Transaction fees are not that significant. There are fully inhabited islands around the world, if you want. But all controlled by governments.I'm a bit skeptical about this idea of "taking over" a country with immigration. I think people would react badly to that. Nationals may easily turn against you. They'd see this as a foreign invasion. Cool, I'd join.  The problem is that existent islands are all controlled by governments. I think it's easier to create a seastead, if you want freedom. Technology for that already exists, the only thing missing is either rich people wanting to "retire" like that, or a business model good enough to maintain such seastead - and brave entrepreneurs wanting to take the risks. Sur la plus-value uniquement.À propos, la TVA n'est pas un peu comme ça? Genre, quand tu achètes tes matières primaires, il y a de la TVA "embarquée", et après tu amortis ce montant de la TVA que tu payes pour les produits que tu vends... non? La vente de l'or n'est pas victime de la TVA, au pas que celle de l'argent-métal l'est. Quel est le statu légal de l'or, pour séchapper comme ça? Peut-être c'est quelque chose comme "réserve de valeur" ou je ne sais pas quoi, et l'argent-métal reste en tant que métal industriel. Si vous arrivez à appliquer le même statu de l'or aux bitcoins ce serait peut-être une façon d'éviter au moins ce vol là... That! Or even better, build my own seastead. But I don't think a $1000 bitcoin price would be enough for me to do so. I don't have that many bitcoins, unfortunately.  Like the professional ISPs who have waited until the last minute to migrate from IPv4 to IPv6 - not to mention that many have not yet migrated? Or like the also professional SMTP servers who have never implemented some stronger authentication system in e-mail transfers? I'm not saying it's impossible, neither that there will be a "doomsday" due to this. I'm just saying it's a problem that will need to be fixed someday, and the earlier it's done, the easier it is. If it's done too much later, it may provoke avoidable problems like long chain splits, people not understanding why their bitcoin is not working anymore etc.And it's not an issue only to miners, every full client performs block validations. I don't think miners will be the only ones running full clients. Those who serve the lightweight clients for ex., they will need to be full clients. +1.Bitcoin should not rely on that. It could be relatively easy now or even in some months from now. But once bitcoin goes mainstream, doing such a change will not be that easy, mainly due to the coordination effort. And the more popular bitcoin gets, the harder such change becomes, that's why I still think it should be done just once. And to do it just once, a self-adjusting rule should be created... just raising a constant is bad for several reasons (multiple backward incompatible changes, gives more space for spammer-miners to abuse on, risk of dropping the fee value and by consequence the difficulty factor in the future etc) I think the "use case" bitbills is trying to address is offline transactions, there the importance of the "face value". That's probably the safest way to sell them, actually. There's nothing so perverse in that. Only the fact that the guy who loses it will be distributing part of his wealth to all other bitcoin holders. He has a strong interest not to lose the card.
Actually, in most retail transactions, I believe the party most concerned with his reputation is the seller. The buyer frequently has no reputation to worry with. Cheating is more likely coming from the buyer than the seller.And in more p2p-like transactions, where the seller isn't really a business with a reputation to care, you can always try to use a scrow as ClearCoin for instance.Also keep in mind that bitcoin is a currency, like the dollar or euro - only orders of magnitude better  -, not a method of payment, like paypal, checks, credit cards etc. There should be better ways to identify a spam attempt and deny relaying them. But I see the point, it's much quicker to just reduce the limit. Please, just abolish this minimum fee. (If you remove this standard fee policy altogether it would be great too ) Cool to see more interest on bitcoins coming from my home land.  With those creatures in the central bank and government, Brazilian people could definitely benefit from this technology!But, besides the language, what's the goal of your site? I mean, couldn't the same job be done with bitcoin.org? Translating it, adding specific Portuguese sections to the forum and wiki etc, so that there is a common point of access for everyone? Well, you can always look the block chain too. If the money remains in the address, you should see at block explorer for example. But yeah, on offline transactions, you have to trust it's not a fake card.I think he expects the holograms to be enough for it. And, well, it's pretty much the same thing for state money bills... Quite cool! Congratulations.It's a nice geek gift card this one. Suggestion: upload videos showing how to redeem a card, as well as how to verify authenticity. It's the change feature. When you send money, bitcoin will use all inputs of the transaction entirely, and the amount exceeding what you intended to send will be sent back to a new address of yours.I don't really see what's the point of this feature, but that's how the default client behaves.Anyway, with the 100 addresses pool, you shouldn't need to back up every time, only when you use the entire pool.@grondilu, Something's wrong, your backup should contain at least the transactions done before it... do you see your old receiving addresses in your address book? You could confirm them with the block explorer... Why have you put me there?Transactions fees being mostly payed by banks will only made them lower, as most people will make their transfers without the block chain.I do think the block size limit must create artificial scarcity to push up the transactions fees. My comment saying that we are already paying a lot to miners in the form of inflation was exactly to argue with those who don't want to pay such fees.I defend an automatic adjustment of the maximum block size exactly for creating such artificial scarcity. Something like, at each X blocks (maybe at the same time we have a difficult adjustment), the maximum block size is set to be 110% of the average size of the last X blocks.On the other hand, Gavin has a point when he says that you seems too much desperate with an issue that will not manifest itself in the next 15 or 20 years at least. It's true that we'd better worry with it before going mainstream, when such a change would need a blockchain split, but there is some time yet and maybe other more important priorities to be dealt with. The idea is good, but the price quoting you mentioned seems high. $1 per card, not to mention the $50k initial investment?It would particularly awesome if somehow you made it work in existent machines that accept Visa and Mastercard, but I don't think it's possible... is it? Can new software be installed in these machines? I like the idea. It's already quite difficult to follow the forum, better categories like these could help.RSS per category would be good too. I share your concern, that's why I proposed this: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1865.0It would still need one backward incompatible change, but just one. Gavin once showed himself open to the idea, if somebody manages to implement it safely. Now we "only" need somebody good enough in C++ willing to give it a try... Cool!I could participate too, of course, it would be an honor. I'm Brazilian, but I don't live in Brazil right now... does the person have to live there?Do you know which is he radio station, Gavin? Probably. But that doesn't mean the US forces actually killed him. http://www.lewrockwell.com/roberts/roberts302.html Great job!!Regarding the issue of the server providing you bad scripts, how hard would it be to make this code a browser extension with a configurable connection point to access the bitcoin network? This raises the importance of a resend feature. Nice! A + for each of you.  Yes and they were probably poorer at that time.It's true that's not only machinery that makes the difference... it's capital as a whole. Capital = means of production. Anything that can increase people's productivity. More skilled labor, better installations, better infrastructure and so on. Machinery has a major role anyway, particularly in industry. It seems you have that socialist-biased view of history. Are you even aware how much the life of poor people improved after the industrial revolution, when the "less scrupulous business" started "exploiting" them?A parenthesis: just think in any animal with no natural predators (and which hasn't yet discovered contraceptive means ). White sharks for instance. If they have no predators, and reproduce in an exponential pace as most animals, how come they haven't yet completely taken over the oceans, occupying every available cubic meter of it? What holds their population from growing more? The answer is: there are no available resources for it. Marine biosphere wouldn't bare, in other words, they wouldn't have enough food.Closing parenthesis, now take a look at human population growth rates, from the roman empire time to present date:Interesting, isn't it? People were dying of poverty (lack of resources) before the industrial revolution and modern capitalism. Infant and children mortality were huge. Industrial revolution cut that short dramatically. Yeah, life at the 18th century was still horrible if compared to today's standards, but it was much better, particularly for the poorest people, if compared with the earlier centuries. This fact socialist folks tend to ignore. The "capitalist pigs" and their "exploitation" saved millions of poor children from starvation.By the way, this idea that without minimum wage laws wages would fall dramatically demands one question: if employers can simply decrease people's salary like that, how come there are people who earn more than the minimum wage? Why haven't employers managed to decrease everybody's salary to that lower limit?As far as I know the Russian Revolution was against the state. They barely had any industrial capitalism there, if they had any at all. They precisely lacked the "less scrupulous" people you criticize, to "exploit" them making them richer.Black markets only exist because there are prohibitions.hehe, right, but armed violent monopolies of "justice", those are to be trusted, I suppose?It's funny how socialists attack the greed of people but then forget that states are filled with greedy people, with privileges that no human being should have. Market prices are not always falling. They reflect offer and demand. For most products and services, it's true that their offer increases systematically due to improvements and accumulation of capital, so the prices tend to fall. But for labor specifically, while the demand has no bounds, offer is strongly limited by the number of people and time. The more a society accumulates capital, the more the labor of its citizens is worth*. History shows how the price of labor continuously increases in comparison with most other prices, particularly after the industrial revolution. Obviously this progression is not without fluctuations, and there are many different types of labor with different prices.*This is so evident when you migrate from a poorer country to a richer one, like I did. For ex., it's clearly visible how much better equipped construction workers here are when compared to those from my home country. They have machines for everything, they barely need strength. Obviously, all these equipment allow them to produce much more than their equivalent from poorer places who so much depend on the strength of their arms. And I don't think such difference is present only in construction, it's probably all over the economy, meaning people here manage to produce more, what pretty much explain why in general they are richer. True.
They lack economic knowledge, most frequently. Anyone that understands about price formation, offer and demand and so on will realize how awful minimum wage laws are. If you coercively set a minimum price for anything, that can only have 2 effects:It changes nothing practically, if the minimum price is below the actual lowest price asked by the cheaper provider of the thing in question (when talking about minimum wages, it's the labor)In case the minimum forced price is not that low, it will rule out those whose actual prices are below such minumum, as they will not be able to compete with those with a more demanded product/service. They will either have to provide their product/service hidden from the authorities (informality) or will be forbidden to provide such product/service at all (unemployment, in the case of minimum wage)This is the same for anything, not only labor. If you force a minimum price for carrots, the producers of carrots whose quality doesn't reach such price won't be able to keep selling carrots on the white market. You'd have cheap carrot farmers going bankrupt or even a carrot black market appearing. Imagine, people selling carrots on silk road.I think that realizing that was among my first steps to leave the "social-democrat" beliefs. It made me give a bit more credit to these "laissez-faire" folks and read what they wrote. You could create one just for that... I suppose it would depend on the ToS... does it authorize this commerce? I think that if it doesn't say anything, then person B would be acting in behalf of person A in what concerns its interactions with company C...This is the first time I see such a thing  5th place already. At this pace we can reach 1st position in a few days. At least the 3rd one shouldn't be that difficult, keep voting!  No, I don't.This is getting pointless. Please, try reading the text I indicated you regarding property rights. I challenge you to find logical flaws in it. The people on the site are very responsive and may answer you better than I, leave comments there if you don't understand something.I have to go now. Best regards Dude, seriously, it's basic definition of math that, unless otherwise specified, in a simple addition like 2+2 we're talking about items of the same nature.Sorry but you seems to have problems with logic. The sentence "there's no absolute truth" is a logical contradiction itself, simply because it implies that sometimes it cannot be true (otherwise itself would be an absolute truth). But if sometimes it's false, then sometimes there are absolute truths, what makes the initial sentence false entirely, and its negation, "there are absolute truths", true.If you can't see that, I'm sorry but I don't think I can write it any better. I'm not playing with words at all. Ethics, sometimes called "natural rights" (I don't like this term very much), can be logically determined based solely on human nature and axiom-like premises like "full obedience of ethics must not culminate in human race extermination".The text in Portuguese I had linked to BCEmporium is good logical explanation of property rights done by Hoppe, you could take a look if you will. Here's the English version: http://www.lewrockwell.com/hoppe/hoppe11.html I just gave you the logical demonstration that they exist, didn't you follow? The negation of this sentence is a logical contradiction, meaning that the sentence is necessarily true.And if you really need an example: 2+2=4. Wow, I voted less than one hour ago and it was still on 10th position, now it's on 8th position!Please, if someone's using a bot, stop. As the OP says, it wouldn't be nice to be banned due to this. How did this happen? Shouldn't the block be invalid? You clearly didn't read the text I indicated you and keep repeating something wrong. Basic ethics can be logically determined, do not confuse it with personal values.hehe, if "there is no absolute truth", what is this sentence itself? It can't be an absolute truth itself... meaning that in certain situations, the sentence "there is no absolute truth" is not true. But if this very sentence if false at any situation, that means that in this situation there is an absolute truth, making the sentence false always. Absolute truths do exist.Wow, now radicals want to maintain the status quo... basically you're defining radicalism as what suits you better.From the very dictionary definition:radicalism (uncountable)    Any of various radical social or political movements that aim at fundamental change in the structure of societyAs I said, those wanting to abolish slavery in the beginning of the 19th century were extreme radicals. What they fought for was a fundamental change in the structure of society. There, fixed it.  No, they were not. They were just keeping status quo. Slavery was a reality in human race since a man became capable of producing more than his basic needs. It existed pratically everywhere, for millenia.The radical ones were those trying to abolish it. And curiously the arguments used against them were quite similar to the arguments used against those who oppose the state.  Ethics is not a matter of culture, it's a matter of logic. Try reading the text I indicated you. A guy once lost 9.000 BTC by restoring a backup produced before a send transaction which had these 9.000 as input. That motivated Satoshi to implement the pool of addresses feature.EDIT: Here's the topic: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=782.0 And the occupier is wrong, the one defending himself is right. This is not a matter of opinion, it's pretty logical: http://www.mises.org.br/Article.aspx?id=200Even a little kids understand that taking what belong to others is not a good idea, even little kids react violently when people take what's theirs, you shouldn't really need the full philosophical explanation to understand what most 4 years old can grasp.Besides, this whole Left-Right thing doesn't make much sense. I would never say I'm "right-wing". +1Let's never forget that those advocating for complete slavery abolition on the end of the 18th century and beginning of 19th were viewed by the majority as "radical extremists". Abolishing slavery was indeed a very radical and extreme idea at that time. True. I thought I was ranking posts, until I try to give a + to the same guy and received the "wait 10 days" error.I think it would made more sense if it was on a post basis. +1 Because those are just different methods of payment which use the dollar?Bitcoin is a different currency. This MinerCorp Alpha wouldn't be able to inflate at will, for instance.
Wait, if I understood you correctly, this is another issue. You're saying that light-clients may be tricked if their server is compromised. That's true and indeed dangerous, but it has nothing to do with an attacker with more computing power than the honest network of miners. An attacker of this kind has no way of creating more new bitcoins than what the protocol allows, for example.Surely. That's why I said a mathematical demonstration of the soundness of the change would be welcome.... but that's for researchers I'd say... Please, this is exaggerated. Stop propagating fear.Bitcoin would not "belong" to the attacker. The only thing such attacker would be able to do is rewrite recent transaction history, and with that, double-spend. That is: big annoyance + potential to fraud against some victims with bad luck. Ok, it's not good, but it's way less harmful than "Bitcoin belongs to the attacker".Now, about your suggestion, I don't think it'd work. Miners would spend their difficult discount as soon as they can use them on their advantage, meaning they wouldn't cumulate much anyway to resist the attacker. And the attacker could honestly mine for some months before turning rogue.Much easier and straightforward than that, IMHO, would be to periodically mark old blocks. It should be possible to calculate the chances of a honest chain split, and also calculate the probability of a honest split lasting a certain amount of days. For example, I believe that a honest split would never last an entire week, or maybe even much less than that - but it would be nice some math to demonstrate that of course. Suppose it's true. People could agree to, every week, mark the block produced one week in the past. Only chains containing the marked block would be treated as valid. This way, the most the attacker could do is to revert one week of transactions - that would be resent anyway. So this makes politically motivated attacks quite silly. And regarding profit oriented attacks, there wouldn't be much margin for double-spending in this short time window. The costs and risks of getting caught would probably outcome the potential benefits of such fraud.EDIT: Just trying to explain better what I meant, maybe marking once a week was not the right way to say it. The best way to do so is to make block reorganizations that rewrite a number of blocks higher than a constant C illegal. If a node receives a larger block chain which rewrites more than one week of blocks, for ex., it just ignores this longer chain and stick with the shorter one. Yeah me too, but still, people do it a lot on these investment-oriented ads. Look at those on bitcoincharts for example.Maybe if they do it it's because it works... :p C'est cool que tu tintéresses, cela me motive à écrire plus.Je n'espère pas te convaincre de rien avec des messages de forum, mais peut-être au moins te fournir un début.Déjà, la démocratie n'est qu'une forme particulier de dictature: la dictature des élus. Les privilèges qui avant étaient réservés à laristocratie n'ont pas disparus, ils ont seulement devenus des "privilèges de fonction". Il n'y a pas des garanties que la démocratie est moins mauvaise que d'autres formes de gouvernement. En effet il y a mêmes des contre-exemples: Monaco, Liechtenstein, Singapour... ce ne sont pas vraiment des démocraties et pourtant ses habitants vivent mieux que ceux des pays autour....Bref... Dans une vraie société libre, n'importe quelle violation du principe de la non-agression doit être vue comme criminelle. Un groupe qui essaye d'imposer des règles arbitraires et des taxations à des innocents doit être vu comme une gangue. Pour que quelque chose soit légitime, elle doit être volontaire.Tous les choses qu'aujourd'hui sont monopolisées par l'état peuvent être faites volontairement. Et la science économique nous permet de comprendre pourquoi cela aurait des mieux résultats que laisser ses monopoles dans les mains d'une institution. Cela ne serait jamais une "société parfaite" ou "sans problèmes", mais si une société ou la structure d'incentives serait la meilleur humainement possible pour que les problèmes existants soient correctement priorisés et traités, selon ce qui veulent les gens (demande) et dans les limites que nous impose la réalité (offre).Il y a beaucoup des textes pour apprendre ces règles économiques, et des explications sur comment certaines choses en particulières pourraient être faites sans initiation de violence. Moi même j'ai une fois eu lopportunité d'écrire pour l'institut mises brésilien, et j'ai écris sur les lois positives volontaires. Le texte malheureusement est en portugais, voici la traduction automatique.Bien sûr qu'il y a des contenus beaucoup mieux. Par ex., dans cette vidéo, Jacob Spinney essaie d'expliquer comment chaque service important peut être volontaire, des rues/routes à la défense contre des états étrangers: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KXNRzI64L9QLa partie la plus importante c'est quand il explique pourquoi même un état remplie par des anges ne pourrait pas avoir des bons résultats: une institution qui s'utilise de la force pour imposer ses décisions n'est pas soumise au mécanisme de pertes et profits et justement pour cela, n'a pas les moyens de prendre des bonnes décisions - même si tous ses intégrants voulaient le faire, ce qui est une hypothèse irréaliste déjà. Cette institution va inévitablement gaspiller des ressources. Spinney aurait peut-être dû dépenser plus d'effort dans cette explication que dans tous les tentatives de "prévoir le futur", mais bref, la vidéo est pas mal quand même.En plus de ça il y a pas mal des livres et sites... un site que je recommande est le Mises Institute (www.mises.org). La Reason Magazine n'est pas mal non plus, et ils ont un canal youtube (ReasonTV) avec des nouvelles vidéos fréquentes. Les français du forum pourraient peut-être te recommander des sites francophones du même type.J'ai trop écris là... je vais me tenir.Les mafias t'obligent à payer pour la 'sécurité' - la sécurité contre eux mêmes. [] This is really nice of you MemoryDealers!Have you considered accepting bitcoins for your business and announcing that? It would be great advertising both for bitcoin and for you... Par définition une mafia ne peut pas "solidaire". La solidarité doit être volontaire, sinon ce n'est que du vol. L'état ne fait que voler des innocents et distribuer le bilan à ceux qui lui convient.La "loi du plus fort" c'est précisément le système où nous vivons aujourd'hui. N'importe où dans le monde, il y a toujours un groupe armé beaucoup plus fort que tous les autres, qui impose ses règles arbitraires à tous les habitants du territoire en question.Je te conseil regarder cette petite présentation sur les droits naturels (l'éthique). Évidement qu'en 10 min elle va pas fournir tous les bases logiques de l'éthique, mais elle est très bonne quand même: http://www.isil.org/resources/introduction-french.swfEt si tu veux connaitre ces bases logiques: http://www.lewrockwell.com/hoppe/hoppe11.html "Encore plus libérale"? Et où est-ce que tu vois une société libérale? N'importe où, au monde entier, les états gagnent du pouvoir, augmentent leur tailles, leur dépenses, leur dettes, leur guerres... Les pays qui ne sont pas déjà sous un gouvernent totalitaire deviennent de plus en plus victimes du corporatisme, cette alliance entre le gros état et les grosses entreprises. L'assistencialisme à la romaine (pain et cirque) est pratiqué partout, de plus en plus - la France étant un très grand exemple de cette pratique.Liberté, où? Peut-être à l'exception récente des pays arabes, je ne vois pas. Et même dans ces pays, je crains ce qui peut leur arriver dans un système démocratique.Bref, oui, tu as bien compris. Bitcoin peut être utile pour enlever le pouvoir des gros états et des grands banquiers qui se bénéficient des "générosités" de l'état, du monopole de la monnaie et de la cartellisation provoquée par la banque centrale. Et c'est bien cella qui m'a attiré à ce projet - en plus de ça génie technique, bien évidemment. Yes, you may claim that the "waves in your brain" or whatever are the result of your work done with your property (body) and therefore belongs to you. It's a weird claim but philosophically speaking it seems ok.But if in the use of your property you cause consequences to my property, you have no right whatsoever to claim that my property now belongs to you.For ex., if in the use of your legitimate creation you produce sound waves - which could still be considered yours - that hit my brain or my recorder, you're causing a (positive) externality to my property. Unless we had some sort of contract, that doesn't give you any right over what's mine.The closest way you could voluntarily simulate IP is by using contracts. But for someone to be submitted to a contract he must have had agreed on it, and that's is the greatest problem with IP. If person A produces something and releases it to person B under some contractual rules, but B ignores such rules and passes such content to person C, person A has no recourse against C, only against B.Calling a thief someone that downloads movies or music via p2p is plain calumny. Congratulations, you've managed to scare the guy before he receives any serious, concrete threat. Nice job spreading fear. This whole story is just too much.Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidences.How come you kill Bin Laden and you get rid of the body Imagine if some armed group came by before it and said "Hey, we have killed Bin Laden! We had to get rid of the body immediately after to avoid complications, but yeah, we did kill him! Where is our $25 million reward?"Could anyone take such group seriously?Because Obama is doing the exact same thing, only that he wishes better poll results instead of $25m. I ask the same question. Not that it's easy to fake such a thing, but still, if he was really killed, shouldn't there be evidences like videos and pictures at least? Has any been released to the media?If they take too long to release anything that will remain suspicious. Bitcoinex,I hope it was just misunderstood sarcasm and you really aren't behind such a childish action.And using the opportunity, if you want to know why MtGox is much more successful than your site: your fees are too high!At least last time I checked they were above 3% while MtGox was below 1%.Have you considered a fixed fee per transaction? That would attract all the large sums of money to your exchange, making it have maybe even more volume than MtGox. Actually, constant fees make more sense than relative ones, as the costs of the exchange site don't really change concerning the amount of value but rather the amount of transactions. I guess recent articles on TIME and Forbes might justify a good part of the rally. The only alternative is violence. I haven't managed to read the entire topic, so sorry if I'm repeating somebody else. But I saw some people worried with the need to pay higher fees in order to have more security.Please understand that now, with this high inflation phase bitcoin is going through, every bitcoin holder is already paying a lot in the form of inflation-fee to have the network secured. The thing is that, as politicians have long found out, inflation is not easily perceived. But you do pay for it.So, even if the fees go up, I hardly think they will ever be comparable to something like 50% annual inflation. Individually, we are probably paying much more expensively right now for network security than we will pay in the future when more people join, even if we have to pay more transactions fees.Regarding the psychological effect - people being less inclined to join bitcoin due to the visible transaction fees annoying them more than the "invisible" inflation-fees we have now -, it could be avoided by letting the transaction fees to be payed mostly by the banks. Actually, that's how I think it will work. Seriously, I don't think it's time to remove anything from any site, not at least while the site owner hasn't been threatened by any government agency of his jurisdiction.When that day comes, I think the best policy would be then to disassociate completely with every site, not only illegal ones. The more the bitcoin project grows, the less need I see in a trade page being hosted by the project site. You don't see paypal linking to every merchant that accepts paypal payments on their site...But of course, all this is my opinion, which doesn't mean anything. It's up to the site owners to decide. hahaha, I couldn't have said it better.But well, putting principles aside and thinking practically, Gavin took the right decision I guess. You can't always run away from criminal gangs, specially such a powerful one. Holy-Fire, you shouldn't be frequenting these "inherently immoral forums". Delete your account, go to the nearest church to confess/purify and don't ever come back here. Your imaginary friend is watching you! +1 hehehe, good one
Yep, paypal is subject to chargebacks, while bitcoins are not. It's dangerous to sell bitcoins for paypal if you don't trust the person buying from you. I was going to say something on those lines but you were faster than me. Finally somebody understands it!People, these sites don't belong to any of you! It's not your business. AFAIK, the owners haven't even asked our opinion. Or have they? Sorry, but I don't like this proposition.I can give a proposition of my own though: the owner of each site decides. Whenever - if ever - they ask our opinion, then each one is free to give it or not.What do you think? The tulip bubble was also caused by inflation and cheap credit. The difference was that the inflation source was not a central bank, but the enormous theft of gold and silver promoted by Spanish conquerors in south america. Nothing has intrinsic value. Value is not an intrinsic attribute of anything. Value is on the beholder.And please, realize it's impossible to determine whether the price of bitcoins is overestimated or not.I don't think this is a bubble, as the housing or internet bubble, since I don't see people getting loans in highly inflated currencies to buy bitcoins. What creates bubbles is easy credit created by inflation.There's definitely a lot of speculation going on, and bad speculators tend to provoke more price variation than what would happen without them. So, yes, if a lot of bad speculators are putting their money in bitcoins, that could result in a lot more turbulence. But still, I would be careful before calling it a bubble. I don't agree with it. It's true that a few extremely conservative and silly people may turn away for this reason, but in general, people from the "black markets" using a technology is a positive advertising for that technology. It shows that's a robust, trustworthy technology.Truecrypt officially states on their FAQ that a Brazilian bankster managed to protect his data using their software, for example. (http://www.truecrypt.org/faq, link at the end of the first response)  I think your doing something similar to "self-negotiation", what's silly in this case.Self-negotiation is when you want X, but you know the counterpart you have to negotiate that X with won't accept what you want, so you previously try to predict what that counterpart will accept and you decrease your own ambition, asking less than what you wanted.What I mean is: has the administrator of bitcoin.it received any formal threat from any government agency of his jurisdiction? If not, why are you worrying? Before coming with guns on your head they will threaten you, simply because that's much easier and cheaper. And when they do threaten you, then you think about what you want to do (either stick to your principles no matter the consequences or obey the gangsters).I see no reason for banning the links to the illegal services right now, so I voted yes. I have no words to describe how stupid such a thing is... unbelievable!Back to the topic... what's actually the point of us discussing this here? I mean, it's up to the owner(s) of SilkRoad to decide it, and as far as I know, s/he hasn't even asked our opinion on this matter.... (unless I've missed something).If your point is just discussing how you think the ideal anonymous market should behave, and you don't think SilkRoad is being this ideal anonymous market of yours, then think about competing with them.  I realize it's not easy, but I guess it's more effective than discussing stuff here at least. C'est sérieux ça?Si vrai, vous êtes une exception chez les exceptions. C'est admirable. Je fais les mots de grondilu les miens, je voudrais arriver à cette age avec une tête tellement ouverte et capable d'absorber des nouveaux concepts.... bon, en faite, avant tout, je voudrais un jour arriver à cette age déjà!  Yeah, I can't do it anymore... I have to ignore the greatest majority of posts, unfortunately...Couldn't there be different RSS feeds, instead of only one with all messages?It would be nicer if the RSS also showed the entire message and the message author username, that would make it faster to go through the messages I think. Well, you have to really believe in the Fed in order to think that the dollar will not collapse. By keeping their reserves, they risk losing much more.Why?The Chinese improve has not so much to do with the US buying their stuff with dollars but much more the Chinese being able of producing these stuff in the first place. They should stop accepting subsidizing the dollar and start feeding their own internal market with their production. It's true that their internal market demand is probably not the same of that of US and therefore the capital structure would have to change, what can be a bit painful. But it would be in their own benefit. They should really stop being mercantilists and let the Chinese people enjoy more the increase in capital the country has gone through.Not to mention the reserves they're sitting on are a bomb... I think the Chinese government has somehow realized the problem they've put themselves in, they just won't admit or take desperate actions. But they're slowly acquiring gold for example, they've strongly shifted from US long-term bonds to short-term ones etc. These governments are not dumping anything, the topic title is a bit misleading. They keep huge dollars reserves... if they dump that, then you'll see the dollar plunge. I don't think they'll do it though, not while they remain believing in mercantilism. You mean valid transactions? I agree invalid transactions don't need to be forwarded, I just don't like this mandatory fee policy.But I see the point... somebody could send millions of 0,01μBTC with no fees, flooding the network....Eventually something better than a mandatory fee policy could be implemented, don't you think? Like rejecting "too fast" transaction series, for example... [mike] suggestion comes handy there. A node that "suspects" one of its peers is flooding the network could just send him an error message with a proper code or text indicating something like "I think you're a spammer, won't accept more than one transaction of yours per second". I agree with that (although I also agree with [mike] that a failure message wouldn't harm either).I just don't think there should be anything automatic... reclaiming should be always manual. You mean nodes won't forward a transaction that doesn't suit their own fee policies? This is bad if it's the case... transactions should at least be forwarded, in spite of fees. What about Singapore? Whose image would be more tainted, the victim's or the attacker's? Imagine the headlines: "US government spends millions to hack and steal digital money from US citizens and foreigners".This would need completely disguised from the public. A government openly doing such attack could even cause some international friction. And I'm not sure it's that easy to hide such an expensive attack from the public, they can't manage to hide even their secret documents! Well, if you care about returning the money to the correct person, then you should worry to whom you send it! If you just want to get rid of the coins, feel free to send them to the address in my signature! There's no guarantee that those in charge of a share wallet can determine that the refund you send was meant for person X. Actually, the address in question could be a deposit address of another person, or just a change address of the bank, anyway, it's impossible to know. Please understand that having more computing power than the entire honest network doesn't allow you to "destroy bitcoin", it only allows rewriting recent (couple weeks, few months at most*) transaction history. Only miners who have their blocks replaced would "lose" money - and consequently everybody that bought their coins - and everybody else would have to wait for their recent transactions to be confirmed again, in case the attacker erases everything.This could also allow the government in question to double-spend, but if it has no profit motives, it would probably not take the risk of showing itself like that. It's not on their interest, taxes are easier. Yes, it could cause some awful problems, but in the end, being the target of attacks from a government may have positive effects for bitcoins, meaning, recognition and support from those who don't approve such action. And it could cause bad effects for the images of that government as well.I don't think it's a good strategy, neither for profit-oriented criminals, nor for political oriented ones.* I don't know if developers keep moving the "milestone block" at each release as previously planned. Nothing older than this marked block can be replaced. I wonder if there should be a sort of "semi-official" marking of blocks like that, done here in bitcoin.org, in order to avoid long rewrites of the network. This policy could be followed by other clients, eventually. Your contract could specify salaries reductions based on some deflation index.Just watch out for the laws you live under... in many countries, paying salaries with bitcoins is indeed not possible, not because of bitcoins' economics, but due to labor laws.
The problem is your not sure the person who sent you the money actually controls the address in question. It could be an address from a shared wallet (like MyBitcoin or MtGox...) By stable I mean the value doesn't swing strongly in a short period of time, not that the value will not change at all. Of course it will change, but as long as it could be more or less predictable how much it should change, it should be manageable. Ah ok, but then it's how you say, you're just pre-calculating the transaction size and multiplying by a user preference. It has nothing to do with how miners will treat your transaction. Consider the currency valuation in your contracts?Of course it's not easy to do it right now with bitcoins, but that's because the bitcoin economy is very small and thus very instable... but once it gets more stable, this shouldn't be a problem. Exactly, the user should guess the good fee for every transaction. And it's miners who have fee policies, not "clients", as in general purpose clients.The only way I can think of doing a "fee prediction" is by looking at the block chain and seeing the cheapest fees that managed to get included within the delay you accept to wait for. For example, if you accept to wait up to 100 blocks before your first confirmation, check which were the cheapest fee per kb transaction that managed to get included in the last 100 blocks. There could be an automation of such process, but I don't think it's up to the reference implementation to provide such service.And still, this is a prediction, there's no guarantee that it'll work.The thing that the reference implementation should have, IMHO, is the ability to resend a transaction with higher fees. I disagree. There's no way to "pre-calculate" fees as miners are free to set the fee policy they want. This standard policy that's being followed by most miners is a set of arbitrary rules that were coded into the standard client, but these are not carved on stone or anything. Miners are free to come up with their own policies.Actually, I don't even think the standard client should have this fee policy or even a miner. It should limit itself in defining what is a valid block and what is not. Competition should be welcomed.And there's no such a thing as natural monopoly. There's no reason for water supply, for example, to be provided only by a monopoly. Home owners associations could own the neighborhood pipes and then hire the company they want as "backbones". This could work pretty much the same for all network services, like streets, electricity, sewage and so on.Like in a building... every proprietary of an apartment is partially proprietary of the networks that run through the building.... with free neighborhoods it could work pretty much the same way, each neighborhood being like a condo.And, of course, as said by FreeMoney, there are always other solutions that eventually may be more interesting than a physical network infrastructure. For sewage, for instance, I wonder if those big holes people used to have underneath their homes for accumulating sewage and then emptying it once in a few years with a proper truck aren't more cost effective than a big net of pipes. Only free market competition could answer which is more convenient to people, actually. It's not the first time I read this... for this to work, wouldn't the attacker need to be working together with all ISPs and backbones that route these circuits? If not, how would the attacker track such stream of packets? I didn't follow... how did the block reorganization created a block with double-spending? This is really cool.How well did you think the politicians of Gibraltar received the idea of bitcoin? Do you think Gibraltar might eventually apply for what is said here? If online gambling is the country main industry, I suppose they have interest in it... but I wonder how strong can international "diplomacy" be over these tiny countries...It's not very clear to me how independent Gilbraltar is from UK, though. Actually before you saying they have a prime-minister, I thought they were technically just like a UK city overseas. Does financial laws from UK apply in Gibraltar? Miners choose the way they want (meaning, the way they coded their software to choose), as long as all transactions they add are valid. You mean your transaction is not here?If it's not there after days, it means something's wrong. Either the transaction is invalid, or your client is not managing to broadcast it for some reason... +1 I've PMed Gavin about it. By the way, either the faucet is getting very popular, or some scumbag found a way to cheat and get all its money. Too many transactions... The faucet? Wow, I was not aware of that! This is cool, I find wuala better than dropbox. Actually, it's the best remote backup provider I'm aware of. (if anyone has better suggestions, I'm accepting them ) Of course, as with any scarce resource.The same thing could theoretically be happening to food and everything else, right now.... OMG, we'll all starve!!! Competition solves the "issue". What doesn't help are regulations, barriers of entry, disrespect over people's property rights and so on... Not sure. It's true for now, but it might change in the next couple of years. Bitcoin has some significant advantages over other alternatives for some particular uses. For ex., I don't think that all users of silk road are technically or economically inclined, and for what I've read here, they're growing fast. Another ex. is international transferring... as soon as we have different exchanges in many countries, making international transfers with bitcoins will probably be easier and cheaper than the conventional means. That'll be particularly interesting for immigrants. Not if they're affecting the complainers properties. (well, I mean they don't have the right to, not that they "can't")If a polluter is polluting your piece of a river, your lake, the water from your well etc, than you have the right to stop him.
How do you come with such a guess? No offense, but this looks no more "fundamental" than astrology...Do you consider, for example, that the simple fact that bitcoins are a good way to protect yourself against inflation is a "service" of its own?IMHO, the main "fundamental" factor driving bitcoins prices is the number of people who understand about it and who also happen to understand how bad fiat money is. The more people that knows that, the higher the price of bitcoins will go... Essayer de créer une conférence exclusive n'est pas productif. Mais une présentation dans une autre conférence liée, ça peut être pas mal.Moi aussi je pourrais parler éventuellement, mais bon, j'ai un accent moche...  I think the weusecoins video should be available in the front page, just like it's now. Yeah, you're probably right, there's this "trust issue". People questioning what miners are working for, how can they be sure there will be no inflation passed the 21 million limit, what are the risks of being stolen and so on.... these are all "technical" questions that could reassure people's trust on the system if properly answered. Parabéns!Sugestão: aluguem algumas caixas postais e façam transações pelos correios também. Assim vocês não limitam só aos que podem estar fisicamente no RJ, e mantém um anonimato até maior.Abraço! +1In Brazil, a lawyer took on the task of making one book with all tributary laws. The effort took almost 20 years, and the book weights 6 tons. He had to find a billboard advertising company to print it, no book printers had the necessary capacity.And that's just the tributary legislation!! Imagine all different codes together! It's impossible to be "law-abiding". "Follow the law" means "have more and better lawyers than those who might oppose you".Edit: A Brazilian author calls this crypto-totalitarianism. It gives those in power almost complete control over people, like in a totalitarian state, only that people don't see it clearly. It's a disguised totalitarianism. Number 2 is better. A Western Union é para transferências internacionais, não? E cobra caro até onde eu sei... acho que a Western Union seria uma das primeiras afetadas caso as bitcoins tornem-se populares... pra que usar o serviço deles, se você pode comprar bitcoins no seu país e transferi-las para o exterior, provavelmente pagando menos taxas. Aliás, fetokun, se o mercado Britcoin abrir logo, e você abrir seu site, sugiro tentar divulgá-lo à comunidade brasileira no Reino Unido... ela não é pequena, e eles conversam entre si. Neguinho poderia usar o seu site junto com o Britcoin para transferir grana entre os dois países. Nesse caso você pega de volta as bitcoins. Não deixa o cara sacar dentro desse prazo, se realmente existe esse risco.Informe-se melhor sobre isso... eu espero que a PagSeguro não reverta qualquer transação assim, só porque o comprador reclamou... imagino que eles ao menos peçam provas ao vendedor de que o bem foi fornecido, aí você poderia talvez mostrar logs ou algo assim, não sei. Enfim, você precisaria entrar em contato com o suporte da PagSeguro pra tirar essas dúvidas antes de começar...E quanto a ter que esperar 14 dias, o MtGox, no começo, te obrigava a esperar 30 dias antes de poder sacar suas bitcoins compradas com Paypal... e isso não os impediu de virarem o mercado referência... Se você aceitar PagSeguro, acho que não importa pra ti o método que a pessoa escolher para transformar os reais dela em PagSeguro... cartão, boleto ou depósito, é transparente para ti. Você vai receber uma transferência PagSeguro...Os que não ligarem de pagar mais caro para fazer via cartão vão fazer, os mais pacientes farão boleto ou depósito para pagar menos... Caralho, 14 dias é muito tempo... sério que leva tanto via boleto? Com cartão de crédito minha doação foi quase instantânea.Não sei de nenhum outro método, foi mal.Também não colocaria a conta bancária, se fosse você.Bom, se o PagSeguro é o menos pior, o jeito é tentar com ele. O mais importante é a questão do chargeback. O atraso é ruim, mas enfim, paciência. O foda é perder a grana.Tente entrar em contato com eles. Pergunte o que aconteceria se seu site se transformasse numa vítima mais freqüente de fraudes, devido ao fato de vender uma commodity digital líquida e anônima. Se eles disserem: "vamos bloquear sua conta nesse caso", aí desencana.Acho mais provável que eles te dêem conselhos sobre como evitar as fraudes, como o Paypal fez com o coinpal.Outra sugestão: um serviço como o do MadHatter, de dinheiro pelos correios. Yeah, a video to potential merchants could be nice.I'm not sure you should put too much efforts in a technical video. As you said, there's plenty of documentation out there that technical people could use to learn. Your talent in animations would probably be better directed by targeting non-technical people. Eu já usei o PagSeguro pra fazer algumas doações, pagando com cartão. Funcionou sem problemas, mas quando você paga com cartão as taxas são violentas. Even in the bronze age they had the concept of money, I think. The romans I'm sure they did. Only a very primitive, aborigine-like society can live without it. And in such societies, you won't have true private ownership nor trade.It's interesting though, because most of our "way of thinking" comes from the times when our ancestors used to live like that. No wonder why so many people seem to hate money, profit etc, as well as think the economy is a zero-sum game. It was indeed from a zero-sum world that we evolved. A very interesting text on this subject: http://mises.org/daily/4700 Seriously, this approach has been tried multiple times in history. Declaring all earth's resources as common implies in more hunger/crime/war/poverty. Although Zeitgeist people do see the evil in the monetary system - and for sure there is - they fail greatly in understanding economics and ethics.The main problem in the monetary system is the monopoly of money and central banking, not the existence of money itself. Money is fundamental. Yes, there could be, by signing some message with the private key of the sending bitcoin address.I think there are some tools out there to extract the private keys from your wallet. Se você for aceitar boleto ou transferência bancária, você vai ter que expor sua conta bancária brasileira. Eles podem vir atrás de ti a partir dela. Cuidado.Quanto ao PagSeguro, o pior que eu acho que poderia acontecer é ameaçarem a UOL e eles fecharem tua conta. Mas na real não sei. Você é advogado ou "entendido" em leis? Uma coisa que eu me pergunto é se um site, simplesmente por utilizar dinheiro brasileiro - tipo através do PagSeguro - já estaria vulnerável às leis brasileiras, mesmo que seja hospedado no exterior.Tenho a impressão que seria impossível montar uma exchange BRL<->BTC legalizada, no Brasil... bom, quando se tem 6 toneladas só de código tributário, é impossível montar qualquer coisa legalizada né... Mas não fui eu! Está marcado que fui eu em algum lugar? É um engano...Tudo que eu traduzi até agora foi a legenda do vídeo do weusecoins.com... também tinha feito uma versão pt-BR do programa bitcoin, mas nunca tinha visto o software rodando com ela, com certeza tinha problemas. Agora tem uma versão pt-PT, acho que basta.Tópico numa comunidade liberal do orkut. Abraços! Capital = means of production Eu falo "uma" já que são moedas... mas não sou professor de português. Quanto a comprar usando paypal, é sempre meio complicado devido aos riscos para quem vende. Não sei de nenhum outro site que venda por paypal além do coinpal. Tem o bitcoin-otc, mas lá é mais um ponto de encontro, tipo um e-bay, portanto as pessoas vão ter dificuldade para confiar num recém-chegado. Você teria que realizar várias compras, num período longo de tempo, até poder comprar volumes maiores.Para quem quiser se aventurar, o PagSeguro da UOL protege vendedores contra o chargeback. Bastaria estender o código do Britcoin ou do Bitcoin-central é fazer sua própria exchange, usando o PagSeguro. 
It's impossible to answer such question.It depends on which stage it gets outlawed, among many other things. If outlawed now, for example, I think it would bring much more awareness than damage, and maybe it would even raise the value of bitcoins.And by the way, I don't think it'll be outlawed in every country of the world. As said in another thread, if a few countries allow its use and the technology really manages to do good to these countries' economies, that would push for abolishing prohibition elsewhere. Wouldn't it be more fair if only those which have donated to the said bounty could vote?I didn't contribute so I don't feel like I get to say anything. Actually, stick with your bitcoins. Avoid converting to fiat. I've translated the subtitles to Brazilian Portuguese. Hope it helps!http://rapidshare.com/files/455023837/What_is_Bitcoin-ptBR.srt If this someone keeps suppressing his freedoms by keeping him in captivity he'll probably starve, of course. But if s/he stops being such an asshole criminal and let him interact with decent human beings and nature, he'll probably find a way to improve his life, you bet.About the video, it proves the point that it's silly to panic about "we only have 60 years left of nuclear fuel! OMG! How will my grandchildren do?!".Prices will push for better uses of scarce resources, if you just let people free. You'd better ask those questions in an astrology forum. That's a question I've been asking. Who pays for this site?There are no ads, no donation link, nothing. Somebody's contributing out of his own pocket... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AcWkN4ngR2Y I'd say they're a branch of the state. Normally the work "government" is reserved to the executive branch of the state. The central bank, as the supreme court, is independent from government, yet part of the state. That's pretty much the tl;dr version of my previous post.  Great, now I only need to relearn C++! Sorry, no patches coming from me... but I'm glad you are open for it.For the jerk with a botnet to succeed with this he would need to either pay lot of transaction fees to include spam transactions in everybody's else blocks, or make the spam blocks himself. If he's paying, well, miners are getting properly rewarded, the jerk is not a jerk anymore, he's rather an impulsive consumer of miners services. Miners will probably make him pay whatever they need in order to sustain such irrational demand.Honestly, I don't see this happening.Now, for him to make it on his own, he would need an immense amount of computing power. Having more than 50% of the network is already a way more dangerous thing than spamming, so let's assume he's not that strong.Let's say that he has something like 25% of total power, which is already a lot. He could act in two ways:Stupid jerk mode: He fills all his blocks with spam, refusing everybody else's transactions. This is stupid because he'd be wasting money, by refusing to accept the transaction fees from others. I suppose people running botnets are not that stupid, but sill, what could the stupid spammer do?Let's suppose the network is already running with a block size limit of 110% of the average needed. Now, the jerk occupies 25% of the space with garbage, forcing all transactions to be in the remaining 75%. That should be 82,5% of the needed space, so such space will get filled and the block size limit will increase. But how much should it increase? It would stop increasing as long as the 75% space not occupied by the spammer is 110% of what is needed. If I'm not lost in the numbers already, this super-spammer with limited intellect would make the block size limit around 144% (one third + 10%) of what it would need to be.Anyway, what I want to say is that is that the relative damage he could cause is proportional and limited to the computing power he has, since as soon as all transactions are fitting in the space the spammer does not control, the bock size limit would stop growing. (I probably made some mistakes in the numbers above, but I hope you get the picture)Having 25% is already a lot, and the relative damage for this stupid-mode is not that great.By picking an arbitrary constant too much higher than the actual needs of the network, we'd probably be giving spammers much more space to spam. Actually, right now, with this 500Kb limit, a spammer with all this power could probably do much more relative damage, making the network download much more than it would need to.Now, assuming that the spammer is not that stupid and he accepts paying transactions into his blocks, that greatly decreases the relative harm. Actually, his blocks would contain around 10% of spam only, the rest would be true transactions. He would barely move the block size limit, even with a great computing power.I hope you're right on that. Nevertheless, consider what I said above: a high constant gives spammers much more opportunity, and risks not creating a sufficient artificial scarcity to incentive mining and thus weakening the network. And a low constant would require frequent backward incompatible changes. The same is true for the Supreme Court and yet nobody says it's private.I agree with hugo, it's misleading to say a central bank is a private institution. It is a state institution. The block maximum size is not only a "miners problem", it's the whole system, since it's a criterion that says whether a block is valid or not.And this constant will probably have to change one day, if we want this project to scale. And such change will be backward incompatible. And as always, it's damn difficult to organize a backward incompatible change after your protocol has evolved enough to have multiple clients everywhere.If this backward incompatible change will have to be done one day, why not make it only once (by setting an automatic adjustment rule), and why not considering making it now, while it's still easy?It's not related with transaction fees only, it's related to the scalability of the bitcoin network as well. Justmoon is right, it shouldn't be difficult to implement a sort of white-list discrimination. Actually it could be even easier than what you say, you could just send the transaction to the miners you know and trust, not to the entire network.But this is quite limiting, and it's not exactly what the OP wanted. He wanted a blacklist - allowing everyone a priori, except a few he doesn't like. That I wouldn't know how to do, probably is not possible as others said. This problem has been discussed before. I agree it's tricky, and it also worries me a bit. This transaction fee thing does look like a tragedy of the commons.One solution would be to have a maximum block size limit that automatically adjusts itself. It can be made so that it's always "tight", possibly pushing fees up. There's a thread for this: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1865.0I do worry not even that would be enough, though. I mean, I can easily imagine a scenario where the greatest majority of transactions (>95%) are not done on the block chain, precisely to avoid fees. Most people would use bank-like services for their transactions. Transactions between different banks could be dealt by them, for example, bank A has an account on bank B and vice-versa, and they transfer to these accounts, avoiding to use the block chain. They would only need a block chain transaction once in a while in order to transfer the balance. This could be done daily or even weekly, depending on the level of trust these institutions have on each other.Anyway... we're discussing a scenario that will take long years to happen. Impossible to know what will be of bitcoin by then. Was in an attempt to deal with this issue and also the need to eventually grow the block size limit that I once proposed this.If, for example, at each difficult factor adjustment, the block size limit also gets adjusted to, say, 110% or 105% of the average size of the last X blocks, we not only allow the network to grow to suit demand, but we also create an artificial scarcity of block space that may drive fees up. +1 It is actually more dangerous, because physical goods normally are not that anonymous, you have at least a mailing address. And as they are not that liquid either, they're less interesting for thieves.Paypal doesn't have much protections for sellers. If you sell something for somebody who has stolen somebody else's paypal account, they will reverse the transaction and you'll end up without your money.@allinvain, take a look at how coinpal is working. You may want to mimic some of his fraud protection techniques. You'd better do whatever you can to prevent fraudsters. They will try to get your coins. Trading irreversible digital currencies for reversible ones is dangerous. I don't even know who/what finances this host.I agree it would be nice to have it on a bitcoin hosting.  But that's up to the person paying for it to decide anyway.
And I specified "nowhere". Unemployment = labor laws fault, particularly if they make it illegal to decrease wages.Minimal GDP growth = don't know enough about the case, but remember that GDP measures consumption not production (monetary stability stimulates savings, not consumption, and that's good). And, well, if the amount of money is stable, the GDP, measured in this money, would not increase much either. People would keep spending the same amount of money, it would just be worth more. Not sure GDP statisticians really take that into account when announcing growth numbers.Increased government deficits = that's because they couldn't finance themselves with inflation. It's pretty much what happened to Japan. The central bank was kind of responsible (well, less irresponsible than others) for quite a long time, but the executive branch of the government was very "Keynesian", spending like crazy, accumulating a huge debt. Anyway, that's government's fault, obviously, not monetary stability's fault. ??Inflation == creating new money != price fluctuations. Inflation is not at all necessary, anywhere. Which is your country? Japan? Regarding fragmentation, I don't know the details since I haven't browsed the code that much, but from what I can grasp from all I've read and what's available on the block explorer, what really counts is the number of addresses.If you receive 0,05 in an address A and then 0,95 in another address B, and then you transfer 1 to address X, your transaction would contain:Address A as input with 0,05 BTCAddress B as input with 0,95 BTCAddress X as output with 1 BTC.If the owner of X transfer all at once to Y, the transaction will only have:Address X as input with 1 BTCAddress Y as output with 1 BTC.Regarding the block chain split, the transactions may be the same, with the exception of the reward transaction to the miner. But they may be different too, it doesn't actually matter. The sender of a transaction that doesn't get in will keep trying until it gets into a block.Problems would arise if the miner uses his coins before the split gets merged, but the 120 blocks maturity limit makes this very unlikely.And finally, the block chain is backward compatible, you don't need to use the same version. I think it's too early for that.There's not only this "dead-bider risk", as traditional courts probably won't recognize bitcoin debts, but also there's the high volatility in bitcoins value. It's extremely risky to make serious lending in bitcoins since you have no idea what will be their value one year from now. Don't be ridiculous. It seems you don't really "get that" actually.There's also a chance that humanity is entirely wiped out by a super meteor falling on earth today. Do you pretend to add "checks" against that, or pass the rest of your life in a meteor-proof bunk? Free money? Sounds like "free beer"... The video already helped a non-libertarian-nor-geek close to me to better understand what was this bitcoin thing I've been publishing stuff about on facebook.  Very well said. Good post! Means not yet spent. While in this status, the entire public key of the address is not available. By the way, provide us the synchronized subtitles so we can translate it to other languages.  Just watched the video. Really cool! I don't know if it has already been slow down, but I've managed to understand everything. The subtitles might have helped. I'm not a native English speaker either.Maybe it's a good idea to make it fast since people think twice before starting to watch long videos.Good job. Nice banner!"Decentralized P2P" is kind of a pleonasm though. Why not just "Decentralized currency" or maybe "P2P cryptographic currency" or even "Decentralized sound money"? Maybe making the T variable specified by the transaction itself, not a constant.Also, block that includes a transaction which should have been expired could be considered an invalid block by the network.This is backward incompatible though, and maybe theymos suggestion of resending the same transaction to self after the expiration would be a good idea - it would be a good idea to send this second transaction with a higher fee, too. But anyway, reclaiming and resending with a higher fee should be even simpler to implement, shouldn't it? And it's a more generic use case. Finally!! Someone else understands it!  Thank you for the numbers.Raulo, you seem to claim that somebody could "easily destroy" bitcoins in its current stage...First, to me saying that double-spending by one super-attacker "destroys" bitcoin is way exaggerated. That super-attacker would just become a dangerous criminal, able to "counterfeit" transactions with every unfortunate person which happens to transact with him. That's serious, but it's not a "destruction" of the currency. Such criminal wouldn't manage to go too far, I believe, before being spotted.And by the way, how easy is that? I mean, how much $$$ would it be necessary to double-spend? Do yo really think that it's a profitable crime? I don't know, but I think the costs largely outcome the potential benefits. You're saying that the bitcoin miners altogether already beat the strongest supercomputer of the world? Last time I read about it here it was told that the difficulty should be above 100.000 for that to happen.If that's truly the case, a few blog posts on it could cause some buzz, maybe even earns us another /. This is not an acceptable hypothesis.By the way, the bitcoin network computing power is already comparable (~50%) to the strongest supercomputer on Earth, according to what I've read in these forums. Even that sounds too much... I mean, why can't you spend part of an output today an another part of it tomorrow?This would be a way of stop using this change thing (which I never really understood the reason to exist), and minimizing transaction sizes... Yeah, you could sell lemonade for bitcoins. Just watch out not to get busted: http://abclocal.go.com/kabc/story?section=news/bizarre&id=7596434
Yep, it's true.Just two things: he doesn't have the right to fraud the contract by saying that the building has safety standards which it doesn't, nor he has the right to silence a competitor, like another real state agency, which publicly defame him by exposing the fact that his buildings are not safe.  I didn't read the text, but there are two possibilities: - These contractors were hired to provide something they are not providing, therefore they are committing fraud and should be punished accordingly (either forced to provide what agreed or return the money).- People who hired them actually knew they would not follow some safety standards (maybe because it's cheaper, don't know), and didn't care. Then, it's their problem only. What's your solution? Point them guns and force them to follow the safety standards you judge adequate? Honestly, if that's your opinion you're a wannabe dictator. Of course, if the irresponsibility of some harms others (like your reckless built building falls over mine), then they are involuntarily violating the rights of these innocents, and should pay for it. If you want to be safe against such risk anyway, you could try to live in a neighborhood where everybody follows a set of safety standards that pleases you. Legitimate "neighborhood laws" can exist in a libertarian society, as long as the entire neighborhood was legitimately "built" by a group which sells the lands under a specific contract. I suppose you get a good level of freedom (relatively to the rest of the world) on some small nations or in city-states, like Monaco, Liechtenstein, Singapore... they have to be more free than the neighboring large states, at least.I don't know how easy it is to emigrate to such places though... to go to Monaco, I know you "have" to be rich. I heard Singapore is quite authoritarian with "behavior" laws, like drugs and prostitution. I agree with jgarzik on this one. Please, don't add this kind of unrelated data to the block chain. HTTPS is not default here. To have it, you need to explicit ask for it. People who don't even know what a certificate is would just remain in HTTP. Bitcoin value is still too instable for serious lending. You have no idea how hard/easy it will be to pay your debt. Bitcoin lending will probably have to wait for a stabilization in bitcoin value, and I guess that will only come after "mainstreanization". The blog says the legislative has already approved it, why do you say it will have to wait for another legislative session? Have you seen this?http://blog.tenthamendmentcenter.com/2011/03/utah-passes-constitutional-tender-act/Quite interesting and promising.BitcoinUSA is in Utah, isn't it? Will its owner consider making gold/silver exchanges for BTC as well?  I don't see how could that evolve much, specially in the current state of things where you can always put every paying transaction in your block.When block space becomes scarce enough, then you should just try to maximize fees, probably by ranking transactions by fees per byte... Currently it is quite low, and I guess it'll remain like that for a while. But one day it might require more bandwidth than average home users have. I'm glad to see you took the time to read even my text and watch the long video. That shows you're not just some troll, rather someone really interested.That's the thing. There's no such contract. I never signed any contract giving total control of all my properties (including my body) to any armed group. And yet I've been forced to do so since birth. That's totally authoritarian and violent. (This piece of the video you didn't like satirizes very well this wrong idea )And no, you can't say that by using the services this violent group monopolizes I'm agreeing with anything, because, for a start, the way such services are provided is already criminal (from an ethical definition of crime, obviously not from a state definition). They use stolen resources to provide such services, and they coercively forbid competitors to provide them. There can be no valid contract there.The only way a state could claim to have the right of doing all they do is if they were the legit owners of all the land they control. And that's obviously not the case. To be legit owner of anything, you either need to acquire it legitimately (voluntarily), or you build it out of your own labor, using only resources you legitimately own or that nobody does (original appropriation, the principle behind homesteading).Every state territory in this world is the outcome of plain brute violence. Maybe tiny territories like Monaco would be an exception, but I doubt it.No, it's definitely not the same. Elected leaders in modern democracies use violence to impose their rulings. Chieftans did not force you to agree to theirs, although in Iceland there was this problem of a maximum number of chieftans, the freedom of choice among the existent chieftans was already enough to make that system way different from current monopolized states.It's not "hopes that it will work out", it's more a "certainty that it will work better", even though you don't exactly how it will work. That's the result of solid economic knowledge that shows that freedom brings a much better structure of incentives than monopolies, in any sector, from telephony to laws.Maybe the most important part of that video is the one where he tries to describe why the government is incapable of making economic calculations. He should have spent a bit more time on that explanation I suppose.That was my first reaction to that animation too. No, people are not equal. The main ethical premise is that people should have the same set of fundamental rights. Denying that is supporting a sort of cast society, pretty much like aristocracy did. That's the only way I can see one could argue for a state, actually.It's very different.If you life is miserable because you're directly or indirectly forced to remain miserable, that's not only a criminal action perpetrated by this conscious agent who attacks you, but that's also something you'll never be able to get rid off without getting rid off the aggressor, or at least decreasing his level of aggression and increasing your level of freedom. It's both ethically and economically "bad".If your life is miserable "just because it is" (bad luck, poor/bad parents, natural catastrophe, inability in being productive, whatever), then, first of all, that's not the result of an aggression perpetrated by an individual. There's no crime there. Then, for example, if an individual proposes you something that, for outsiders' standards, is something humiliating or degrading, but for you it represents an improvement, even if minimal, you'll certainly accept it. You would not accept something that would make your life even more miserable than what "nature" already does. So, naturally, you see a possibility of improvement there coming from this "exploitations", as people who haven't being under your skin call them.And if you observe the economic incentives of such framework, you'll see that the possibility of profiting from these miserable people cheap labor will drag lots of investors, allowing such miserable people to improve their life faster and faster. It's a virtuous circle, not a "trap" from which you can't get out, like the scenario of coercion.It's the typical sweat shop scenario, so criticized by leftists who don't really see the entire picture.As you can see, there are major differences, both from an ethical and an economical point of view. Do you think you could make a STOP INFLATION one and ship to France for, say, 20 BTC? Any chances of having a more generic one, with the words "STOP INFLATION" instead of "STOP THE FED"? It's "made up" with logical deductions out of axioms from human nature and basic ethic definitions such as "every human being should have the same set of fundamental rights". Saying this is "made up" is almost like saying mathematics is "made up". It doesn't prevent it from being true.Yes, and there would be such "regulations", only voluntarily. It's not necessary that absolutely everybody agrees though.Bitcoins solve the problem of transferring money. Taking over existent countries is probably harder. People don't easily accept a bunch of foreigners coming in and trying to change everything. hehe, yeah, pretty much like this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EfQdw2K59x4You need to merge your labor to a piece of land in order to ethically claim that such land is yours. Might doesn't make right.That's the goal of the seasteading project: http://seasteading.org/It is just not that easy though. It's not ad hominem, I'm just basing myself on what you've been defending on this thread: the use of violence to force people to adhere to your regulations and taxes. You're defending the state, so by definition you're supporting violence.And who said "no rules"? Freedom is about no rulers, not no rules. This has been said more than once on this thread too. This is such a repeated topic when discussing libertarianism that when I had the chance I wrote a text about it myself. It is in Portuguese, if you don't mind an auto translation: http://tinyurl.com/6jplv8uOf course you can find better material than that. The short book Chaos Theory, from Robert Murphy, is easy to read and good. There are also plenty of videos like this (very good video this one).Since I'm giving links, one that you shouldn't miss is this nice short animation on ethics: http://www.isil.org/resources/philosophy-of-liberty-index.htmlIt was actually this animation that made search for more answers concerning libertarianism. When I first saw it, that put me in a sort of contradiction, since I couldn't disagree with its fundamentals, but at the moment I couldn't agree either with the conclusion of such fundamentals. So I went on reading and learning about ethics and economics, until I changed my mind in many aspects. I also agree with removing the default CPU miner. It causes more problems than good.Separating the GUI from the command line would probably be a good idea too, but I have no idea about the effort that would be needed. With that I agree. That's the main reason why we have states everywhere. And you seem to be among these tyrants, since you support such brutality. Yeah, yeah, right. Same excuse used to defend the practice of slavery during 19th century: "It exists everywhere, since always. It's part of human nature!"And by the way, an army doesn't necessarily need to force people to pay for their protection.And even without organized armies, a nation of armed people can already offer strong resistance too. Search about medieval Ireland, and how they've managed to repeal both Viking and Normand invasions. It took the English a strong effort (and carnage) to gain control over them, even England being a much larger nation at the time. +1That's an important point that even so called minarchists frequently fail to understand.
Because they remain far from being socialists, and they were way farer than today for a long time in the past. Even today, although being victim of insane taxes, they suffer very few coercive regulations when compared to most countries. And yes, regulations are much worse than taxes.In this blog post there's a list of articles you should try to read: http://mises.org/Community/forums/t/5616.aspxThe first one detailing Sweden history is quite good. You can't just look at the current state of a country and determine that the quality of life there is a result of their current balance of freedom vs violence. Changes take years, frequently decades to happen.Same silly mistake you've done above, not considering history. Somalia has always been a crappy place to live in. During the short period they had with no state (which is over, by the way), they've managed to progress more than ever, yet remaining poor.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Somalia_%281991-2006%29http://namcub.accela-labs.com/pdf/Better_Off_Stateless.pdfhttp://fee.org/media/stateless-in-somalia-by-benjamin-powell/If it's regulated it's not a free market. What you say doesn't even make sense. You're advocating violence, not freedom. I think this might be a good idea, but the user should have the option to just disclose the info for people he wants too, for privacy reasons.Maybe publicly announcing the PP addresses of those who perform chargebacks would be a good idea too.The only thing that worries me a bit is that chargebacks normally happen when the true owner of the account gets scammed. So, by tainting the account as untrustworthy, you would be marking the victim of a scam, not the scammer himself. It's true that the victim could be responsible for not properly protecting his account, but even still... most people just don't know how. The true criminal doesn't get his reputation touched. Thank you [mike] for this! Great work!I'm browsing the code right now... You implemented all the crypto stuff on your own?? Wow... is bitcoin choice of cryptographic functions so particular that you couldn't find no Java library for it? Anyway, all my respects to you, sir! All those numbers and binary operations make me dizzy just to look at.... True. But, well, maybe not all currencies exchanges are that liquid, forcing oil buyers from different countries to have some dollar reserves. Such reserves could be changed to euros.And also that would be bad for the dollar "image" and good for the euro's. Maybe other dollar reserves out there, not directly related to oil, would suffer a shift. Many central banks around the world hoard USD, for example. I doubt it. There are plenty of anti-american media and governments out there that would propagate such statement. Truth doesn't change in a couple of months. It's a bit frustrating to see people that were supposed to understand the origins of value to keep repeating a dangerously misleading logical contradiction as "intrinsic value". It's this constantly repeated mantra that makes so many gold worshipers to question bitcoins fundamentals by saying that "it's not backed by anything, so it cannot have true value!". Intrinsic value means pretty much the same thing as "squared circle". It's a logical contradiction, simply doesn't exist. Value is not in stuff, value is on the beholder. The CPU mining option should be removed from the default client...  Does the client need to be bound to one method only? Can't this be decoupled so that the same client could use different encryption methods? True! This thing of putting months before days is damn confusing... when will you english folks learn to use proper formats and the metric system?   I would change this: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1865.0 Ah, and by the way, avoid I.P transfers. A transfer may come from several different addresses. I think they've chosen not to display it in the UI in order not to pollute it. It's true that it would be nice to have this info in the transaction details, but there are higher priority developments before this.If you really want to know the origins of your money, you can always use the blockexplorer. Just search for your receiving address. Are you talking about the story of Saddam selling oil for euros?Because I've heard this many times but there's simply one thing that doesn't stick: if that was the true reason for the invasion, why didn't Saddam ever cited it in his own defense? Just publicly saying: "They don't want to attack me because of inexistent WMD, it is because I'm going to sell oil for euros!". And by the way, why was it so hard to just do it? I mean, why would it take so long to change the currency against which you sell oil that even gave the time for military action from a foreign nation?I do understand the importance of dollar supremacy for the US government, but this story just doesn't stick very well. Just giving my two cents, I agree that the DNS-like feature is not high priority, but resending and reclaiming transactions is (should be in a 1.0) True, Peter Schiff could be a great supporter! The harder thing would be to make him understand how reliable bitcoins are.And I wouldn't be much surprised if he just fails to understand it. Take for example the Mises institute. As far as I know, they haven't yet published anything on bitcoins, although bitcoin is practically a grass-root manifestation of everything they defend in terms of money. That's just because they don't get the fact that particular numbers may be a scarce commodity themselves, and not only a representation of something else. So they keep asking "but it's not backed by anything?", without realizing that gold itself is not backed by anything either.Anyway, all I'm saying is that sometimes it's hard to convince non-geek gold-worshipers of the advantages of bitcoins. And their source code is open. You could use it to create your own exchange if you want. To me it's quite clear that Baron is a thief.@MtGox, in order to close this case once and for all, why don't you just provide proofs like:Digital signatures that show you own the addresses from which Baron address was fundedLogs from your site showing the dictionary attacks and the theft of bitcoins and LRLR logs of the transactions Person B used to get the money out of your account (does this exist?)Logs linking all actions of "Person B", in other words, something that indicates it is indeed the same personWith this amount of info, plus all Baron's contradictions, weird excuses (being mute!?) and lack of willingness to identify himself even to MtGox, I think this case could be "closed", since it would be "proved beyond reasonable doubt" that Baron is a scammer. MtGox could use the frozen money in order to pay for the losses he and his customers suffered. +1 Oh come on, a person with "unclear conscience" or "not clean" wouldn't even care about stopping the thief in the first place. He's done way more than he needed. He should be congratulated for that, not bashed like this.And he has manifested himself a reasonable amount of times. He doesn't need to post at the same rate everybody here is doing, chill down.
@MtGoxHow do you know the Person B you talk about is always the same one? IP address? Peut-être pas forcement puissance CPU, mais si tu veux avoir de l'émission décentralisée, il faut qu'elle soit très difficile à faire. Tu peux pas avoir une monnaie qui n'importe qui peut créer et qu'au même temps est facile de se créer, sinon tu auras de l'inflation hors contrôle.C'est pareil pour les métaux précieux, ils sont très difficile de s'obtenir. Il faut y dépenser une énorme énergie et beaucoup des ressources. Well, the quickest solution to the current problem would be raising the free space, I guess. Say, 3 times the current values... ?Also, stop picking which transactions to relay based on fees... the transaction memory pool size is another matter*, but at least relaying all valid transactions should be the default behavior. But this I don't know if it would be quick to develop... *By the way, why should a client which is not mining keep a transaction pool? Shouldn't we just leave it to the interested parties (sender and receiver) to rebroadcast the transactions once in a while if they look like "forgotten"? It's not up to the client - specially, not up to the default implementation of it - to decide what are "useless" transactions or not. It's up to the miners. The clients should reject only illegal transactions, like double-spending, wrong signatures etc. The block size wouldn't reach 100MB unless that was really needed. And if it's needed, clients would need to adapt anyway (ligthtweight clients or banks, whatever).And such increase should be gradual, somebody there in the topic suggested making the maximum limit something like 110% of the average size from the last N blocks. It might be a good approach, in order not to increase too fast.Anyway, I understand your concern. Any chances of having the blockexplorer data provided via JSON and/or RPC/RMI/etc? Having an interface like that could make it easier for the development of such lightweight client.  This is not a security hole of bitcoins, Scarecrow. Any sensitive data is vulnerable if not properly protected.If bitcoins go mainstream, people will just trust their assets to bitcoin banks. Really? This is bad! It's not up to the client to decide that... at most, relay and then forget about them, but don't ignore them.No, what I suggest is making such limit adjustable just like the difficulty factor, as a "network rule", not something a user could change. There in the topic I explain more: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1865.0 Can't this code be just separated from the default client?I don't see a reason to have a miner in the default client anymore... It's useless, since CPU-mining is useless, and besides, things like fee policy for instance are really arbitrary and may change during time. It would be better if the default client was there just to set up the "protocol rules" and nothing more.Anyway, if we really need to set up a default fee policy, then definitely these free transaction limits should be raised.By the way, I still think it would be a good idea to make the maximum block size variable, instead of a hardcoded constant as it's right now.Yes, manual reclaim and manual resending, that should do it.  There's a "default fee policy" implemented in the default client that says that the space for free transactions is only 4KB, although the block may be bigger.Most miners seem to implement this policy. So it's already happening that many free transactions are not managing to enter any block.This is being discussed on other topics right now.  By the way, an important question: if I generate a 500KB block with only free transactions in it, it will be accepted by the network, right?Or this current "default fee policy" is not just for the default client, but for the protocol as a whole? Gavin, IMHO, transaction fee policy is a business to miners. You shouldn't care, unless you're developing a miner.I think that the miner that comes with the default client should just be discontinued and removed from future versions. This way, there's no "default policy" and miners will create their own. If they want to accept free transactions they will, otherwise they won't, and they'll find their ways of prioritizing them.The only thing that the client should be capable of doing is resending a transaction, with a higher fee.It would also be nice too if the user could specify the transaction fee per transaction. The GUI could also allow different kind of inputs (absolute value, relative to the transaction size, relative to the amount etc) Besides, the faucet gives you free money... you can't complain about the delay. But this is interesting anyway. A few free transactions are starting to have a hard time getting included in the block chain... if this fee policy keeps being used by most miners, maybe it won't take much longer for it to become difficult to send any free transaction. People in a hurry will have to start adding fees. Okay, the default client transaction policy. So, most custom miners are just following it... I thought people would create their own policies...Anyway, so there's nothing digimag can do but wait. The maximum block size is 10KB isn't it? So this isn't a problem of priority. There's enough space to include all of them. Plus, I've just checked a few of the last blocks, and them all contained free transactions, what means that miners are not deliberately refusing free transactions either.There must be something particular to these transactions that don't get added... Really? It's the first one I see.Do you know if there's a way to dump the transaction pool, so people could see if there's anything particular with his transaction? This is weird, I fail to understand what is the issue.Does anyone else know if there's a way to dump the transaction pool? The only thing that makes sense to me is that the transactions which have your address as output are not standard, but if it's the case, then it's probably a bug in the software, since I believe the faucet uses bitcoind to send its transactions.It would be nice if somebody with a better knowledge of the source could take a look at this. Bump this thread tomorrow if you don't get any answer. The forums have been so busy lately, people might not notice your thread. Won't help, it seems the transaction hasn't yet been added to the block chain. According to the block explorer your address has never been used.It's weird, if you see the 0/unconfirmed transaction it means the transaction was signed by the faucet and you received it on your client... why hasn't it been added to any block, I don't know... I mean, it seems the network forgot about it. I thought that in such situations your client (or that of the faucet) would rebroadcast it.Unless there's something quite unusual with your transaction that is making every miner to refuse it. But why would the faucet produce a non-standard transaction and how come your client recognized it? Yes. If you suspect your wallet has been compromised, you should:Generate 100 new addresses, and discard them (never use)Transfer any remaining coins on that wallet to a address generated after the 100 above.Never use any of the older addresses for any transaction.Most important, try to understand what happened in order not to keep your new addresses in the same compromised machine. Maybe a format if it was a virus, a divorce if it was your wife etc.I agree, the thing is that it's just not that simple. If you keep your wallet on the same machine you use to surf the web, there's always risk. If besides that you use windows, the risk is greater. It's impossible to fully protect a user's computer if the user executes malicious code or if s/he trusts in people s/he shouldn't. And sometimes you may get a worm just for viewing the wrong web site, without executing anything else but normal browsing...I think that the best solution for those who don't feel comfortable in keeping their own coins is:Have an offline wallet for your savings, as suggested before.Use a "bank" (MyBitcoin, MtGox, Bitcoin-central...) to keep the bitcoins you want to move more frequently. Yes, they can be stolen.If you want to protect your bitcoins yourself (instead of trusting on a web service), best thing you do is to keep your "savings" on a wallet that's on offline media. Encrypt it (check TrueCrypt if you don't know how) and make multiple copies (on different media, of course). Save at least one copy on a remote server like Dropbox, Gmail etc.
The idea is good. It's particularly appealing for people running bitcoin services. It is not impossible to tax bitcoins. The fact that they are traceable will make them taxable, unfortunately. Nice feature. I don't think they are the same person.BCEmporium has shown in another topic to be of the same nationality I am (Brazilian), and, as expected, I find it easy to understand what he writes, while Baron writing is very weird to me. +1 Baron didn't even know what the blockchain is.It wouldn't surprise me if he thought that bitcoin transfers are 100% untraceable. I wasn't "odding out" UK system in particular, it's just that I don't see anything reasonable in coercively imposed legal systems. You might be right there. I'm not sure I would have taken such risk either.My main point of disagreement is that you seem to be attacking him for having tried to make things right, while I think that, if he's proven correct, he should be applauded. If not, then it was a bad mistake, but not as serious as fraud/robbery if he returns the funds. After all, there's no agreement of "withdraw anytime" when we send him the money.I think people deserve recognition for helping innocents, and so far that's what it seems MtGox did in this particular case... Oh boy.... Yes, and agree with most that you said in this last post, it's a dangerous thing for MtGox. I said in another post that I thought MtGox actions were probably precipitated.I hope he's sure the account really was stolen, and I'd like to see why he's that certain.The thing here is, suppose that the allegedly victim is himself a scammer, like in your examples. Then there should be evidence somewhere that the scammer did sell BTC to Baron as he claims.It's way too precipitated of your part too accusing MtGox of robbery. Are you suggesting we don't know bitcoin is not under the control of state mafias?That's the whole point of BTC, not to be easily controllable by governments... why do you think it's P2P in the first place?And I see no reason why there can't be refunds in a business not controlled by governments. This whole story here may prove you wrong.By the way, here you are again with this disgusting behavior of blaming the victims instead of the actual criminals. "Open your eyes or your eaten". Everyone has the right to have his eyes as much closed as they will, nobody has the right to steal from them.Elucidate me. Why, just by operating free of state chains, a market operator that's apparently trying to solve a robbery issue immediately becomes a robber himself, according to you?Maybe because he doesn't want to send a big "Fuck you" to his clients and want to help them? Specially if he has strong evidence that there was not such negotiation between Baron and the thief.By the way, it was not just a scam, an account of his own site seems to have been robbed.I can't be sure, that's why I've been asking for evidence since the beginning.It's quite clear though that Baron contradicts himself in some of his posts, not to mention the difference in reputation between him and MtGox, what makes me have more trust on the latter "a priori". True, it's not his business, he didn't need to do anything at all, yet he had something called morals and tried to stop this thief. And your action? You call him a scammer:No, it doesn't make him a scammer.Are you even aware that MtGox lost thousand of dollars to paypal scammers in the past? That's why he switched to LR that you criticize so much.How can you be so sure Baron bought anything? He doesn't even remember the name of the guy who sold him more than $3000 worth of coins? No logs, no nothing?By the way, @MtGox, another thing you could do is to check how fast was this transaction performed. I mean, if the guy transferred the ~3000 coins right after having done the login into the stolen account, it'd be difficult to believe that he would had already found a buyer in a matter of seconds/minutes. And, if nothing can be found on IRC logs proving that such transaction did indeed occurred, Baron runs out of alibis. Remember somebody here has all IRC logs... Oh sure, I had forgotten that. Thanks. Will edit my other post. It would be a better thing to do, but for that to be possible, his software should be able of doing this selective blocking. I'm not sure it is. This is true, now that bitcoin-central code is open, somebody who masters Ruby on Rail could implement a PagSeguro plugin. Quite easier than implementing the whole exchange. And if you don't want to host the exchange yourself, I think David would accept to perform BRL trades in bitcoin-central.net, specially because PagSeguro can be entirely automated. Finally some useful information about the whole story.My suggestions on how this could be sorted out:- "Victim" extracts some of the private keys from the addresses used to fund these supposedly 3 MtGox addresses that funded Baron's addresses.- These private keys are used to sign some random strings.- MtGox does the same with his 3 addresses that funded Baron address.- MtGox proves that access to his site which made such withdraw were not performed by Victim. This is the most tricky part. Maybe by using his logs, crossing IPs etc. If the account suffered a dictionary attack that should be easy to show.@Baron,If you keep "not remembering" the details of your transaction on IRC it remains difficult to trust you. As an alibi, you may want to talk with the guy there who just said he has all the logs from IRC and try to get the logs which show your transactions.----There something weird though. According to what I read here, it took 3 days for Baron address to get fully funded. How come a thief who just happened to get somebody's password waits 3 days to get everything out of the account?A possible answer to this is that the thief was afraid of transferring all bitcoins to an address of his and then tried to sell them for LR, and sold them to Baron, what would make him innocent. But, still, if Baron wanted all bitcoins, and the thief definitely wanted to steal the most as possible, why didn't Baron buy everything at once? EDIT: MtGox withdraw limits...Again, Baron, look for the logs on IRC. This could prove your innocence.I'm starting to think MtGox action, even if motivated by noble intentions, was too precipitated. If I ran a bitcoin bank and somebody came by saying that somebody else got his password and stole him, I don't think I would take radical actions like freezing somebody's funds unless I can be very sure that the withdraws were not performed by the true owner of the account. But how do you prove such a thing, if the allegedly thief had the correct password? Oh please, I can't stand this kind of thinking, "fuck the stupid victim, he deserved it!". Stop blaming the victims, blame the criminals! If he doesn't then people's trust on him could decrease, mine included. I don't know if he could be accused of crime, particularly if he returns the frozen funds, since, as people noted on this thread, there are no terms of service on MtGox.I don't think it must be avoided at all costs. I think, for ex., that those Chinese folks on the video I linked you above acted better than police and courts would.I am not saying courts have no purpose! Better make it clear before people misinterpret me. Take a look at my messages in this topic, I even suggest how a voluntary arbitrator service for this kind of accusations could work, in order to make everything more transparent and efficient. So what that victims claim to be dumber? If A fraud a contract he has with B while B respects it, A is the criminal and period. It's pretty much black & white in this case, there's nothing to "equilibrate" there.There's absolutely nothing wrong in trying to search surreal profits in short periods of time through voluntary means, as you suggested in one of your posts. There's obviously something wrong in not respecting a contract. And I repeat that, if he manages to prove that he really caught a criminal, I will applaud him.
If you say you will return them and you don't, then you're the criminal (fraud) and I am the victim. A stupid victim, but so what? It wasn't me who committed the fraud.I wouldn't say there's a crime on pyramid schemes since the whole thing is explicitly described in contracts to which all parties agree. There's no fraud there. True. But it only got publicly know on the 22th...There's no easy way that I'm aware of, you must use the blockexplorer, assuming that you know addresses that have being used to deposit "dirty" money. That's why I'm also expecting MtGox pronunciation on the matter.What? Wait. Everyone has the right to be naive or stupid if you will. Nobody has the right to fraud or steal.Don't blame the victims, blame the criminals. Calling a scam victim a scammer too is absurd. (unless of course he was a scammer on other situations, but that's definitely not 90% of them) Oh come on, so if you see somebody getting robbed on the street and you're capable of stopping the thief, you wouldn't do it because you're not "police/judge/executioner"?I'm much more for these behaviors than yours.You're right that MtGox hasn't said too much, I'm also expecting the evidences. But people, this whole thing has what, two days? Chill down, not everything can be done on "real time"... Police? Seriously? What do you expect them to do, besides filing a report? Any decent system should consider not only the reputation of those who make crime accusations, but proofs too. This someone would have to prove the theft, otherwise his unprovable claim would be just some negative points on his/her reputation.Or do you mean someone who has acquired stolen coins without knowing it? This is more complicated, and I don't know how such system could solve this issue. Basically it's a matter on who should be the final victim, the first one to be stolen, or the last one to receive the stolen coins before they get caught.Leaving it for the first victim has an advantage since it "forces" people to be more responsible with their belongings.But leaving it to the last one increases the range of such protection system, making it much more difficult for the thief to get away with the coins, since people would now start to worry with the sources of the payments they receive. Banks could automatically detect dirty payments, the standalone client could have add-ons to indicate dirty payments and so on.Anyway, it's a complicated and delicate issue, of course I don't have all the answers, but it would be interesting to see how free market interactions will deal with criminals. And honest random users would give back the tainted coins they freely received to the true owner...I also think some service of this kind could be useful if it manages to be quick enough. For example, a exchange has some coins stolen. In less than 24h, it publishes it and all addresses touched by such coins become tainted. No bank which agrees with the terms of this service will accept any of those coins anymore, if they ever receive them, they transfer back to the original owner.Eventually, such service could even write a patched version of the standalone client that recognizes dirty incoming transactions.To think about... it opens dangerous doors, but it may have a positive balance in the end... it's how voluntary justice is supposed to work, through ostracism. The dirty coins would get ostracized... MtGox is no "public" anything. It's private property, and if its owner wants to allow people to trade in secret there, nobody else has anything to do with it. You were defending a voluntary court system in this very topic... if that's not an ethical base (voluntary is ok, coercive is not) than what is it? No, Bimmerhead, it seems you didn't understand what I meant.Nobody has the right to steal, so, if Baron is proven guilty of theft, he's not the rightful owner of the stolen bitcoins. If MtGox can really prove that, he has all the right to retain such coins - and the rightful owner could reclaim them.Now, we must wait for the evidence... Like you or not, everybody has the right to sell widget on the internet. But nobody has the right to steal. This is basic ethics. If he can really prove that it was a thief, I see no problem at all. Actually, I'd congratulate MtGox for that.But, I'm expecting the evidences... +1.There's nothing wrong with dark pools. I'm not sure I understood this "long term optimization". By smallest I believe you mean in BTC amount, right? The goal would be to spend smaller addresses quicker in order to have less addresses with money in it, is that it?Besides shrinking people's wallets, what optimization could this bring? These addresses would remain in the block chain anyway...Can old transactions be really forgotten like this? I've seen people saying this around here before, but it sounds a bit dangerous to me. (deleting data is always a dangerous decision)I mean, isn't it a problem at all to have a missing link in the chain? Suppose every miner does it, there would be no proof left that certain bitcoins are really linked to its generation block...Well, I think - I might be wrong - that bandwidth is a scarcer resource than disk space. So, to me, it sounds more reasonable trying to focus on reducing the bandwidth necessary to be a miner. So maybe minimizing transaction size is more interesting...By the way, it will probably be on transaction size that fees will be charged anyway. Only Bitcoin-central and Bitcoin-market deal with PecunixGAU directly, and the volumes are low.But it's true, it would be interesting to have charts of BTCvsGold or BTCvsSilver, even they have to convert from MtGoxUSD to precious metals using some standard quoting available.Another chart I think would be interesting to follow is the total value of all bitcoins in existence. This graph would take BTC inflation in consideration, showing that its rise in value is even more significant than what it looks only by the unit value. Wouldn't it be better for the network if the client tried to minimize transaction sizes? (for the network and for the user, as soon as we have to pay for transactions...)Actually, talking about it, why does the change mechanism exists? Is it to improve anonymity? It's not very clear to me how does the change improves anonymity, but anyway, if that's the case, I'd suggest to make it optional, and disabled by default. Only those really worried with anonymity would activate it. That would make transactions smaller. What really distributes wealth in an evil manner is inflation. The most poor are the most damaged by it, since they are the ones who tend to have a larger percentage of their possessions in the form of money. Tiago, you may use CoinPal. It doesn't allow a large volume but it's a start.It would be nice if someones that happens to know Ruby on Rails and has some spare time could implement a PagSeguro plugin to bitcoin-central. PagSeguro is a sort of Brazilian paypal, but they don't do chargebacks. Of course, they charge quite high fees for credit card payments, but Brazilians could use less expensive forms of payment (boleto, TEF). More info: https://pagseguro.uol.com.br/en/what-is-pagseguro.html Thank you for pointing me to this extension. I really thought that was a default behavior of all SSL clients.So, sites have no requirement in signing their new certificates with their old ones then... if a site changes a certificate about to expire, the extension will have no way to determine whether it's an authentic change or not, right? If most people there are using silver already, why don't you set up a exchange between silver coins and bitcoins? That would be a good way to introduce bitcoins to other FSP members.By the way, how geek is the FSP community? I heard there were many.I find the FSP movement really interesting and I wish you all success! (If at least it was not so close to the north pole I'd maybe even consider the hassle of trying to migrate to the USA, but I don't think I'd bear the weather! )
Damn... is there evidence that this has ever happened before? By the way, I thought browsers would display a warning if suddenly the certificate for the site I'm used to visit changed... Just like everything else. "Intrinsic value" is a contradiction in terms, like "squared circle".http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/the-fallacy-of-quotintrinsic-valuequot/Even if it happens - and I don't think it will -, fine enough. It will remain a good way to protect your savings against inflation, like precious metals, only better. So, the guy is going to do it tomorrow.Does he know bitcoin well enough to answer questions people might ask him?This will be cool.  This sounds a better idea.Actually, as soon as there are better GUIs out there, I think the default GUI itself could be "retired", and we keep just the command line application. Keeping it simple... You don't need an intermediary step to change a country's official currency. Brazil changed currencies many times... I remember at least 2 before the Real, and I was a kid at the time. Every time the numbers were getting too high, they would just divide everything by 1.000...I think this intermediary step of URV was needed to handle state debt. I'm not sure, but I think state debt was attached to the country's currency, which was hyperinflationary. If that was the case, the interest rates needed to be huge. If they just stopped printing in order to control inflation, they would end up with unpayable debt bounds and would need to default. I guess they used the URV in order to switch the debt to this stabler unity, making interest rates lower. Then, after all debt has been rolled-out in new bounds attached to the URV instead of the Cruzeiro, it was ok to make the URV the new currency and decelerate the printers. Really, congratulations for all this catch-the-scammer task force! Amazing! That's probably bitcoin's greatest advantage! Easy to transfer, easy to stock/protect...Well, if both parties trust each other, they can transfer offline. Trust is needed due to the risk of double-spending.And, as people said, with 3G and smartphones, internet is available mostly everywhere. We shouldn't really worry. Please, just don't make it that expensive!   If you're just "using it as money" you won't really keep it for long. You keep it if you also see it as a way to save/invest.By money I was talking just about "means of exchange", not a way to store savings.Requirements for "good money" are features like:Slow inflationEasy to transfer, protect, storeEasy to verify as authenticAnd so on. It's on this sense, of "good means of exchange", that I'm certain that bitcoins beats gold.I do think that the "sound money of the future" will either be bitcoins, or something else on the same line (something digital, not physical). It doesn't make sense anymore to keep using something physical for the role of money, imo.You do have a point though, it is difficult to separate the role of "means of exchange" from the role of "store of value". For this latter role, bitcoins are still riskier than gold. Maybe, but don't compare currencies with drugs... the latter have a very "hard" demand, in the sense that, if it becomes more scarce, people will stop consuming other stuff in order to continue consuming drugs, that's what pushes their prices so high.Currency, I'm not that sure... if it becomes dangerous to use bitcoins, people could simply switch back to government controlled currencies. That may cause a big devaluation. In the long run, the value would tend to stabilize and then slowly grow due to scarcity, but if you bought a lot just before the decrease, you're screwed. So people are really paying just to get a more frequent supply of minted coins? Yes for both questions. That's what I meant by "lack of trust".Faking digital signatures? Has this ever happened with the algorithms used by bitcoin?That wouldn't change what I said. Bitcoin would keep being better as money than gold. This new, better online currency would only be even better than that.Don't confuse "being good as money" with "being good as an investment". Bitcoins are definitely more risky as investment than gold right now.All this rich criminal would be able to do is to fraud transactions, by double-spending. That's not an "attack to the network" but rather an attack to some individuals who are unlucky enough to deal with the criminal. And, I really doubt that the eventual benefits one could get out of such criminal activity would be even close to the great cost of gathering more processing power than the entire network. Somebody with that much resources would probably earn more by just generating, actually.Worthless, I doubt it. At most, it would see a decrease in value if, for example, a better currency shows up or most governments worldwide declare a War on Bitcoins Exchangers. But that has nothing to do with bitcoin's qualities as money.Again, you're confusing "being good as money" with "being a safe investment". I don't doubt gold is a safer investment right now than bitcoins. If block-space becomes so scarce that miners start rejecting paying-transactions like in your example, I bet people will quickly re-enable this resending feature.Currently, there's enough space on blocks for all transactions to be free. Could I just translate an article of mine already published in another language? That's quite obvious to me too.I think the people who don't believe in this either aren't geek enough to understand bitcoins (so they lack trust), or they just worship gold without really understanding why this noble metal was such a good money for so long. If you understand what are the features that make gold useful as money, you'll easily that bitcoins upgrade each one of these features, by orders of magnitude in some cases. Well, a 60 blocks reorganization could cause some disasters anyway, couldn't it? That's 10 hours of transactions... It's ICANN who controls the root level domains, as far as I know. So, on the current architecture, only them could attribute .foo to some domain name authority.Now, nothing prevents people to invent other domain name systems, that are not under ICANN control, like the .p2p initiative. But that would only work after many DNS servers (or browsers) learn how to use these new DNS systems.That could lead to some name conflicts, if more than one system define the same root level and attribute it to different authorities. I just hope it doesn't act given all other countries the same power... Ok, that means they cannot easily block just like they did with these 84.000 domains... but VerySign itself is under US jurisdiction, isn't it?
Really? I thought both were. Under which jurisdiction are .com domains then? They can block IPs outside of their jurisdiction for those who live inside their jurisdiction, just like the Great Firewall. Come on, the guy predicted dollar parity in February months before it happened! Of course it is a "weather forecast", but he was very accurate on that one. Just watched Gavin presentation. Very nice! Nice.I don't think I can apply to the offer though, mainly due to time constraints.Do you know there is a java keystore (JKS) file type that you can use to store key pairs? You could add them there in standard formats like PKCS12, PEM etc... These way they could be exported/imported not only by the library, but by external tools as well.And, just for curiosity, why not JDBC instead of XML? You'd probably have better performance and flexibility that way... if you really want to output a XML file, I guess there might be some XML-database with JDBC drivers somewhere on the internet. I remember the people from XWiki had a project for making it P2P. XWiki Concerto: http://www.xwiki.com/xwiki/bin/view/BlogFr/XWiki+ConcertoXWiki is a programmable wiki. If you had just installed, maybe your client was still downloading the block chain. That may take some hours.But it's true, the unconfirmed transactions should have been displayed right from the beginning as far as I know... maybe while downloading the block chain the client ignores the notifications about new transactions? This would make some sense, since downloading the chain consumes lots of bandwidth, better not mind about new transactions. Great then, we agree that there should be no IP, just contracts. There are several ways producers of content may assure their earnings. People would still find a way to escape, but it would be a minority. For example, watermarking digital content like movies delivered to movie theaters or downloaded. Software could be delivered in closed markets like what's happening for mobile applications. Web applications are another way to charge for software without actually delivering it. Advertises could be embedded or displayed before allowing the download of music/video. Musicians may earn their lives making shows. There are many ways... Then the contract may be enforced. That's the closest you can get to IP, through voluntary contracts.But that's not IP, at least not how state laws make it be. You could enforce your contract over the person that agreed on it. But if this person disrespects the contract and sell this music to somebody else, you could not enforce anything on this third person who had nothing to do with you.Like, a marriage contract may have some clause stipulating punishments to a spouse in case of adultery, but not to the lover!   Despite being scarce or not, the intellectual property debate should end with the fact that causing a positive externality to somebody else's property doesn't give you any right whatsoever over him or his property.Say, for instance, a musician is playing something on the street you're passing by. Let's assume for all effects that both you and him have all the right to be there where you are doing whatever you're doing.Suppose the music is the musician's creation. We can says it belongs to him, as the instruments he uses to play. By extension, we could even say that the sound waves he produces with his labor and property belong to him. But as soon as this waves hit your ears and affect your brain, they're causing an externality to your property. Positive externality if you like the music, negative if you don't.But even if it's positive, that doesn't give the musician any right over you. He can't force you to pay something for the benefits you're having from this music, and I bet, for this example, most people agree.Just change your ears and brain for your recorder, and the example keeps valid. But, for some reason, people claim once your recorder receive the positive externality caused by the musician work, you owe him something or you can't fully dispose of your property as you could before.... this makes no sense. Causing positive externalities to other people's stuff doesn't grant you any right over these people's stuff. Voilà autre chose que je trouve bête. Et le pire, je ne me doute pas qu'un jour les producteurs bio vont réussir à avoir des subventions pour baisser leur prix. Peut-être ils les ont déjà en faite... Ce texte est fabuleux. C'est le meilleur texte contre le protectionnisme que j'ai déjà lu. D'accord. Moi, j'ai. C'est pour ça que je trouve cette histoire de monnaie locale bête. C'est économiquement inférieur.Oui, tout le monde a le droit à ses tabous, le problème c'est que c'est une petite minorité qui voit la démocratie comme la dictature de la majorité qu'elle est. Tu nourris un sentiment comme ça et ce que tu auras c'est des gens qui votent pour des hommes politiques qu'utilisent la force pour leur protéger des tout ce qui est étranger.D'ailleurs, le protectionnisme n'irait jamais loin si n'était pas pour la force de l'état, vu qu'il est économiquement négatif. Fin, si volontaire on peut dire que le plaisir de satisfaire son tabou est un bénéfice économique valable, mais il y a une limite jusqu'à où les gens vont préférer continuer à sacrifier des avantages pratiques dans leur vies pour des sentiments comme ça. Pourquoi?Tous les fois que j'en ai entendu parler, elles étaient défendues par un discours protectionniste.Une monnaie globale et décentralisée, comme était l'or, me semble l'idéal. Espérons que les bitcoins y arrivent un jour.  Many bitcoin sites are made by geeks in their spare time, so don't expect many professional web designs.Regarding physical address, what for? E-mail + public key isn't enough? Anyone could force everyone to pay transaction fees, that's true.That wouldn't make only the attackers transaction get included, though. Those paying more fees would be included first.What I wonder is if miners implement intelligent ways of discarding transactions if their transaction pools gets too big... For you to have an idea, from January 1980 to June 1994 (last month before Real), the Brazilian monetary base expanded 2.303.797.693.883%. That's an average of 518% per year.On the other hand, from July 1994 until April 2009, almost the same period, the monetary base expanded "only" 1.938%.That's what actually "saved" Brazil, not a terminology trick.Source: http://tinyurl.com/6jdvruqHe uses official data. Perception might have some importance, but holding back the printers is what really counts.After Real adoption, they stop expanding the monetary base so crazily as before. Taxes raised a lot and government had to sell some stuff in order to keep the budget. Not true. There are fees for tiny amounts transactions and there is a maximum size limit for blocks. I guess the place isn't defined yet, right?If by Central Europe they mean Switzerland or south of Germany, I'm not that far. (I live in the south of France). There are others who may be more used to do this kind of thing, like the financial analyst of this forum who predicted the parity in February (S3052? Don't remember the numbers). He lives in Switzerland if I remember well.Anyway, if you don't find anyone better, contact me. I believe I know bitcoins technical and economical concepts well enough, but I have never presented anything to "high-profile financial business".
Where in Europe? When? Would the person have to pay anything from his/her pocket? Weird that your use of the computer gets affected... normally the generating thread runs with low priority, so everything else gets ahead of it.Now, about generating with your CPU, forget about it. Difficulty is way too high. You need GPUs to generate. That's just due to stupid mercantilist believes of governments worldwide. When the dollar devaluates, they devaluate their own currencies in order to subsidize their exporters (at the expense of the rest of the society, but don't expect them to understand/care).But what grondilu said is only applicable to national currencies like government currencies, which have their own market. USD doesn't impact EUR because mostly they are not used by the same people. An international alternative to bitcoins might take part of its share if it's really better than bitcoins. Simple clones wouldn't. MtGox is the most liquid exchange market, but it's not the only one. Check bitcoincharts.com for some more. The number of people aware of bitcoins and interesting in buying them has not such a strong link with the amount of goods and services offered on BTC. There's more to the explanation of the tulip mania.People used gold and silver at the time as money. There was a huge inflation of these metals in Europe after Spanish invasion of South America. Basically they've stolen a lot and all ended up on the dutch banks. The reasons why it ended up there to be used as credit are explained in the article, I think.In the end, it is yet another application of the austrian theory of business cycles. It's just a peculiar one because inflation came out of massive theft of precious metals instead of money printing. Sure it's a memory leak? Could be a sort of garbage collection, just like the JVM. There's no such a thing as "public good". By good I mean "property". There's no "public property". To own something you have to be able to make decisions about this something. An entity that's not capable of making decisions can't own anything.The "public", as any other abstract collective determined by arbitrary definitions, can't make any decision.Only individuals and organizations can make decisions. And organizations can only make them indirectly, by the inner rules that make them be. Such rules delegates each decision to a rational individual that decides for the organization.So, the government, yes, it can possess stuff and make decisions for them. The "public" can't, as that's not an organization or rational entity.And I used the work "possess" to make a distinction, since governments can't rightfully own anything, since everything they have was either stolen or produced with stolen resources. They control stuff by force only. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EfQdw2K59x4The larger video from which this small one was extracted is really good too, if you have some time I recommend. I'd be more general than that and say that there is no way a currency can, all at oncebe issuable by anyone (decentralized issuing) be easy/cheap to issuehave limited inflationYou can at most pick two. Both bitcoins and precious metals for ex. satisfy first and third criteria, but they are hard to obtain. A centralized electronic currency would satisfy the second and third, but not the first.I don't think it's "mathematically provable", but it's probably "praxeologically provable", what's practically the same thing since math and praxeology, despite their (great) differences, follow the same scientific method. Me too. Hello,Some guy I don't know sent me this video on youtube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4-D0AVVPKwIt basically talks about how this barter network progressed after the meltdown in 2008. But what called my attention is the last part of it, where the news anchor says that The Barter Network provides legal advice, and even IRS forms, for those willing to work with bartering.Somebody interested in running a legal bitcoin business in US may try to contact them. As bitcoin is not official money, I suppose the same laws that applies to bartering applies to bitcoins.If you happen to do it, consider compiling a basic "instruction-guide" for others to follow and post here in the forum.  I suppose this number is calculated using a recent "blocks per hour" count and the current difficulty. As block generation is not very homogeneous itself, it's normal that this global hashrate estimate varies with it. I've heard in this forum that it's pegged to the dollar. Change "stop the fed" by "stop inflation" and you may expand your businness internationally. Great idea, by the way. It's not just the main page, the software GUI too.Both could really use some designer's work.I can't do more than complaining, though   Wouldn't that make them even more vulnerable to US government stupid laws?While they keep with LR they are vulnerable "only" to Costa Rica government and whichever government controls the data center where they are hosted.I mean, if LR is doing chargebacks just like paypal, then I get the point. I haven't read everything you just posted, but it's not quite that yet, right? They are "just" locking accounts under investigation by US authorities, right?Summarizing, why would bank wires be any safer than LR? There is RSS for this forum already: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?type=rss;action=.xml Yeah, probably.Sure, but that's already a sort of credit system. You'd have the same tricky aspects to implement it. Why not use a general purpose money instead of a exclusive thing?Like, those that just want to consume bandwidth instead of giving it could pay with something else, and those willing to provide more bandwidth than consuming would be able to exchange this excess for something else too. It's better this way.hehe, I don't like the idea of paying for anything, I always prefer "free stuff", but you know, there's no such thing as free lunch. But think, you would pay and be payed at the same time. The balance it's a matter of how much bandwidth you contribute and how much you consume. There is no single point of donation, but still, monetary rewards would really create stronger incentives for people to make their bandwidth available. And I think it's feasible with bitcoins.
Why not?Those who are willing to freely donate their bandwidth wouldn't need to stop doing so. Allowing people to exchange bandwidth for money would just create a faster, payable version of the Tor network. I already thought about it, but it's hard to implement I guess.You can't just embed bitcoin transactions on each data packets. That would be a huge overhead for both networks.There should be some sort of contract. Like, you pay a certain amount (the relay may specify how much) and the relay grants you a key that you would use to sign each packet. The transfer should cover a good amount of data to be transfered before you have to pay again.There, you have some problems:The anonymity would be somehow compromised since the relay would be able to link different connections of yours. He still shouldn't be able to decrypt it if he's not the exit-node, nor know your IP, but anyway, sounds a bit more vulnerable than the current protocol...There's a trust issue too. If it's a prepaid contract, the user has to trust the relay. If it's post-payed, it's the relay that must trust the user. Maybe the best would be a prepaid service with some sort of flagging mechanism to ban fraudulent relays. But then, all the thief-relay needs to do is request a new IP to his ISP...  But anyway, if somebody finds a way to implement a payable tor service that would probably have lots of bandwidth since most people don't use all their bandwidth all the time and would be happy to earn a few bitcents from it. Cool images!Changing "stop the fed" by "stop inflation" would make it meaningful outside the US. hehehe, I would like to see some euros with such stamp.  I'm not sure if that's really the case. If it was so, countries with large informal economies would be better off than countries with most of the economy formal. And that's not what we see... Normally having to constantly hide from the mafia is harder and worse than just paying them what they force you to. That's not always a good indicative.Take Japan for example. The government has a monstrous debt, but the central bank is quite conservative, they inflate very slowly. Prices in Japan have been falling in the latest years. Actually, one of the reasons the debt is so big there is because the government can't finance his enormous expenses with inflation, so it accumulates debt instead of monetize it.On the other extreme there is China, the biggest lender of all governments, but with an inflationary central bank - since it follows US Fed.You really have to look case by case...That doesn't seem that high as interest rate... anyway, it's not the interest rate that counts, you have to look at the monetary aggregations, how fast they expand. For example, Brazil has really high interest rates, but that's because the central bank prints so often that the rates adapted to the price inflation. Swiss, on the other hand, has low interest rates, and that's not due to monetary expansion. The idea of signed PDFs is interesting, but as gavin said, probably overkill for the moment. If there's some rich dude willing to put a five-digits amount on it, he'll probably find his way of doing it safely. Not to mention he probably wouldn't buy it all from one only person...@Gavin, why would the seller in your scenario be anymore protected against paypal frauds than all others selling hard currency for paypal? Just the presence of a delivery address you think is enough? An exchange BTC<->INR would be a good idea right now  Yeah, but remember they retain a monopoly over contract enforcement. If they don't do, they won't let anybody else do it. So, for such a fundamental service, better have it monopolized than not having it all.And about cost externalization, that could be reduced... often is the party that loses the process that pays for everything. Bon courage, ça serait cool si ça marche!Tu sais c'est qui pourrait être sympa? Convaincre un magasin physique d'or/argent-metal à travailler aussi avec des bitcoins... les acheteur d'or seront peut-être intéressés dans les bitcoins s'ils comprennent les principes.Le truc c'est que le premier à le faire aurait dû être quelqu'un de passionné par l'idée, car il aurait du travail... déjà comprendre comment gérer tous les aspects légaux, après expliquer aux clients etc... hehehe, right, and governments are very longterm oriented... They plan everything they can for the next election! Only by respecting private property rights you'll get people to worry about the future consequences of their acts, as the rightful owners will care about what happens to their property. Currently most of the amazon is owned by the Brazilian government. What do they care?Had you understood what I tried to explain about how governments stimulate consumption, producing short term booms at the expense of long term recessions, you'd understand who's really shortsighted...Seriously, the "world lung" hoax?? You still fall for it??Try to remember the basic chemistry behind photosynthesis and you might realize how this is nonsense... the Amazon doesn't provide oxygen to the world.I bet all these things can be done much more cheaply than the cost of not using such precious resource as all that land.About biodiversity, what's the point, preserving just to preserve? Useful species will be preserved, you bet. Soon we'll even be inventing new species, DNA synthesis is a reality already.You should watch this George Carlin video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xjfiIow-eW0I insist that it's probably useless to preserve such a huge jungle just for the sake of preserving it. It's pointless. Preserving small parts of it might be interesting, but not all. Bitcoins don't have to be anonymous... it's true that it becomes a little harder than just displaying a fixed donation address, but unique addresses may be generated after donors provide necessary personal data. In Brazil is not so rare to find reais bills with an entire prayer written on it... I guess a short phrase + URL would not be a problem at all.  Just a post about this particular subject. It seems both of you are mislead in your arguing. It's the same kind of mistake I see often when people talk about smoke-free environments. The pro-market people try to argue how a free market would create all sort of smoke-free and non-smoke-free environments for all tastes, and the other side remains skeptical. Same thing here with "how would the free market preserve the Amazon".The first thing that is important to remember is: the free market pushes towards the best resource allocation humanly possible. That's what it does, always. The definition of what is the best allocation is where you both might be mistaken there. Who says the Amazon has to be preserved in the first place?The free market "criterion" is utility to mankind. We have to remember that everything has a cost. Maybe having lots of smoke-free environments is not the best resource allocation due to high costs and reduced benefits.Same thing for the amazon. I strongly doubt that preserving that huge forest as is is the best resource allocation to mankind. It's really a huge amount of land that could be much better used than just let it there for monkeys and snakes. Of course, in a true free market, some would acquire land in the amazon to preserve it, either for tourism, or for science researches, or whatever reason these owners decide to give to their land. But I bet that most of the forest would be destroyed to give place to something more useful to human beings, like agriculture and livestock for example.Am I wrong? Maybe. The only way to really know is to let people free and see what they prefer to do. Ok, it's just a semantics misunderstanding then... I find the word "responsibility" a strong one. If you say somebody was responsible for a criminal act like this one, I understand that s/he is guilty of it. And if you're guilty of a crime, you must pay for it.MtGox is obviously not guilty of what happened, that's why I say they have no responsibility.This would be cool, but as you noticed, it's quite difficult... they would need to contract a external service probably, and I don't think there's enough volume for that. It's not the site owner responsibility. I don't want to blame the victim either (only the criminals are to blame), but MtGox doesn't have any obligation whatsoever of refunding him. Unless they had explicitly sold such guarantees, they don't have any obligation in keeping our funds protected at all. It's our choice to trust or not in their capacity to do so.They should have, of course, interest in protecting their site and maybe even refunding our friend here. But that opens dangerous precedents for them as somebody else has already noticed... this case seems true, but who knows about the next that might come...The whole problem with this is that the bitcoin world is still too small to have professional insurances behind everything. Normally insurance companies would refund such losses, and these same insurances audit the platform for security flaws etc. Normally security-sensitive sites like banks block an account after a number of unsuccessful login attempts, and then require some sort of positive identification to unblock.Another interesting thing is doing like facebook, which asks several questions each time you login form an "unusual" IP... it would probably be useless for Tor users as they would not have an "usual" IP in the first place, but it's something.These things are annoying but it's quite less annoying than having your account stolen like that... Okay, but then you need to store your passwords somewhere, and you'll want to encrypt them... then you need a password-protected key... in a moment you'll have to remember one good password at least...But yeah, having generated password for sites seems a good idea... Price reduction either means society values less the priced thing, or values more whatever you're using to measure such price (the money), or both at some degree.In a scenario of monetary stability (insignificant or zero monetary inflation/deflation - not to confuse with price inflation/deflation), it's normal for most prices to fall on the long run because society will accumulate more capital, what will make it more productive. More production, the supply of "stuff" increases. The supply increasing, the value decreases.Did I answer your question? By the way, why the question, I'm not sure I understood?I didn't say all. If I did, it was a mistake, sorry.What I think I said was that lots of capital will have to be destroyed. And this is simply because the boom was artificial. There were no real savings to sustain it. And the projects that can't be continued due to lack of savings might have to be abandoned, what implies in capital loss.The typical example is the guy that starts building his home believing he'll be able to spend the equivalent of 1 millions dollars in resources and labor, but in reality there are only 500k available, and he doesn't know. He'll probably start a voluptuous project that he'll not be able to finish. If he discovers the problem in the beginning, say, after having spent 50k somebody prevents him there are only 450k more available instead of 950k, he might still be able to "patch" the project and in one way or another reuse part of the resources already spent. But if he figures out the issue after having spent something like 400k, he's probably screwed and will have to abandon the whole project. All the savings spent will be lost.This is what happens when people start big investments possible only due to the artificially low interest rates central banks produce with their inflation. And, as in the example, the longer the illusion keeps going on, the bigger the damages will be. That's why the best thing would be not to prevent the recession, but let it come with all its strength to reorganize prices and capital allocation as fast as possible.No... FRB doesn't create actual resources, it only creates new money. How is that going to allow investments to take place? Capital is not made of dollar bills. Investments need resources. These resources had to be previously produced and not consumed, otherwise they wouldn't be available for the investment. Resources that are produced but not consumed is the definition of savings. Conclusion, investments need savings.What might be said about FRB alone (without central banking) is that it puts saved resources available for investments more efficiently. I confess I'm not sure whether this is true or false, there's a big debate there. But, in spite of that, it's quite clear that central bank inflation only does damage.We don't like state police, don't mix things up. Voluntarily providing protection services is perfectly fine and fundamental, as you note. Well, I was thinking of an embedded proxy that would be used only for bitcoin. If the user wants to protect his/her other traffics, he should look on how to.Automatically redirecting user normal traffic to a tor proxy just because s/he installed bitcoin would reasonably piss off some users.Why would they? It's not like Tor depends on bitcoin to work better, it's more the other way around. This would be nice, integrating the bitcoin protocol with hidden services... I don't know how the protocol currently works, but I suppose there are messages to ask for other nodes, right? These messages could send not only IPs, but Tor hidden services addresses too.I don't know why leave it up to the user to publish or not a hidden address though... I suppose one maybe have numerous hidden service addresses, right? Why not making it automatic? You connect and publish your hidden service address to your peers so they publish to theirs and so on... If it's government censors, they don't need DPI nor fingerprinting, it's actually much simpler than that, all they have to do is to connect themselves to the P2P network in question and log the IPs that connect to them. SSL connections (or random obfuscation data) are useless.This is what Hadopi is supposedly doing in France right now.
I agree with your concern about people not knowing how to protect themselves, but then, I think that better than adding unnecessary features to the main software, we should just offer preconfigured bundles, as I said on my last post.An "anonymous bitcoin" bundle to be downloaded from the main project page, that would include the bitcoin software + an embedded tor proxy, everything preconfigured... this is better, imho, than adding SSL support to the bitcoin client.  What's the incentive for ISPs to do that, despite government pressure?Because if it's the government who's after you, they can do just like hadopi in France. Encryption alone won't help you, you need something like Tor.Maybe a better thing would be to offer a bundle Bitcoin client + tor proxy with everything already configured, for those who aren't geek enough to configure it by themselves. Just like the firefox bundle that torproject offers.I don't see a need to add encryption to the core bitcoin software. May I ask why do you want public data to be exchanged through encrypted connections? I don't see the gain in that. If it's anonymity you want, encryption won't help you... No.Well, gold also requires lots of energy/resources to be mined.The thing is, how to invent a currency that-anyone can issue/mine/generate/etc, in other words, it's issuing is not centralized.-doesn't inflate too fast-doesn't consume too much resources to issue, in other words, it's easy to produceSo far you can at most pick two... if you manage to invent something that satisfy these 3 criteria at once, I bet everyone here would be really interested.  What's interesting is to ask what happens if in the inputs you have addresses that are "fine" and others which have their balance dependent on the double-spend. What happens to this transactions after the block reorganization? That was not my question...  These facebook credits are only a "decent competitor" to bitcoins if they are an independent currency, what I suppose they are not. If they are just another form of payment like paypal, then they are just a problem to paypal, not bitcoins. Are these facebook credits really an independent currency or are they pegged to government currencies like paypal is? The topic has grown a lot, I'll answer only what was directed to me.Savings is totally necessary. It's the only way. Investments need to use good and services. These good and services had to be produced before the investment take place, and they must not had been consumed. Something that is produced and not consumed = savings.A debt contract is nothing more than a "savings rental" contract. Somebody has savings, somebody else hasn't but need it for now, they loan. The interest rate is the price of such rental.As of any price, in a free market it reflects the supply/demand. So, in a free market, the interest rate reflect the supply/demand of savings available for "renting" (lending).When the government intervenes with its authoritarian inflation to push down interest rates, it causes price distortion. When the price of something decreases, that normally stimulate consumption of this something and inhibits its production. That's what happen when government artificially pushes down interest rates: people spend more and save less. But newly printed money is not real savings. People are consuming as if there were lots of savings to back up their long term projects, but there isn't. Voluptuous investments will start and won't be able to finish. You have a boom followed by a bust that destroys capital.And the worst of all is that it all takes years, normally more than the term of the despots who rule us under most democracies... their goal is always to push to the future the more they can, and enjoy only from the boom.I don't get your point. There's no inherent value, value is subjective. Your bread just got "less valuable" not "less inherently valuable" as value is not a property of bread.Ok, some members can do that, sure. Particularly those who are allowed to use coercion. If property rights were respected, that wouldn't happen. In what way would the wallet.dat logs be any different from what you find on the public chain already?I don't think that's the kind of log he worries about... logs linking the input with the output that would be the problem... the wallet.dat wouldn't have such logs since bitcoind itself wouldn't have such info. Democracy is just another excuse to control people. A much more elaborate and efficient excuse than "ordered by god", but still, an excuse.If politicians themselves really believed in democracy ideals, we would already have direct democracy everywhere, since current technology renders it feasible. But I don't know of any direct democracy government anywhere...I wonder though if direct democracy would have less bad economic incentives than representative democracy. Maybe secession would be easier in such context what would allow for smaller governments... but on the other hand, economic-illiteracy might bring destructive labor laws, regulations and "soak-the-rich" policies...Does anyone know if somebody has ever wrote a good praxeological comparison between direct and representative democracies? I've never used, but MtGox has built some reputation here already. He's shown honesty before, so I would trust.Or your trust issue is somewhere else? No, it's the other way around. Someone who hoards is abstaining himself to consume his share of production. His hoarding will make prices lower what will make it easier for others to consume and invest. He's making it easier for others.What else could?"Real savings come first, if you want to invest." http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0nERTFo-SkInvestment means employing goods and services with the goal of increasing productivity capacity by accumulating capital (=means of production).Savings means sparing a share of what was produced (consuming less that your share of production).If all goods and services produced by the economy are consumed (no savings), nothing is left for investment. Some amount of production has to be saved and redirected to investments so there can be economic growth.Savings => Investments => More capital => More production => Possible increase in consumptionOften people tend to view only the last part of this cycle (increase in consumption) and try to stimulate that, with authoritarian policies like lowering the interest rates through inflation, for example. This is awful, as by stimulating consumption you'll decrease savings. In the short run, you'll get an economic expansion. But that's unsustainable. Lots of capital will be lost in bad investments, who should not have started in the first place.First, there's no such a thing as "inherent value". This is a fallacy: http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/the-fallacy-of-quotintrinsic-valuequot/Value is on the eye of the beholder. It's a subjective opinion people have on stuff, not an inherent attribute of valued stuff.So, I don't know what you mean exactly. Do you mean that the demand decreases? I think that's more the supply which increases fast, but it doesn't make any difference actually. The fact is that it's very well known by everyone that eletronic prices fall down quite quickly, and that doesn't stop people from consuming them at all. And electronics are superfluous! Do you really think people would stop consuming "important" stuff just because it might get like 5% or 10% cheaper the next year?And even if a percentage of society decides to go ultra-hoarding under price deflation, they'll just be making it even easier for those who want to consume or invest as I said before. No problem there.And by the way, another thing that people often don't pay attention is that, for price deflation to happen in a scenario of stable monetary base, economic growth must have happened before. Otherwise prices will be stable. So, this claim that deflation would stop economic growth is quite weird since deflation would only happen after economic growth. Sorry, this is nonsense.The economy and entity of its own?Something good for people is bad for the economy these people participate in?  Individuals are an end in themselves. They are not ants in a colony or pieces in a body. This is "simple inflation", not exactly what we have in central banking economies. In our current system, it's worse than a commutative-hidden-tax. They use inflation to lower the interest rates which provokes business cycles and lots of capital destruction.This is fallacy spread by Keynesians. There are many other topics on this very forum explaining why this is wrong, and you'll certainly find good articles on the web. Check www.mises.org for example, there are very good articles there on the subject.Just think of hightec products... their productivity raises even higher than inflation, what make their prices deflationary. And that doesn't prevent people from buying them...And by the way, savings is good. That's what feeds investments which bring economic growth. Yeah, but still, that's the monetary base... as soon as it reaches banks, through the fractional reserves system, most of this increase in money supply becomes debt... (at least until before 2008 it did )Only the compulsory reserves remain, which normally is a small fraction. The compulsory reserves banks hold on the central bank. You know what would be nice? Try to apply the same table to gold (or precious metals in general), just to see how better bitcoin stands. Maybe even comparing to government fiat money too, but that might too much humiliation...  +1Not that it will change much right now, but it would be good to develop such practice. I agree with you. That's why I think it would be a good idea to try to create an artificial scarcity for transactions, while we still can: https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1865.0 Another ideal is free transactions. Bitcoin might have them now, while inflation rate is high, but eventually they might get expensive, as so much computational work has to be done in order to generate. hehehe, okay, fair enough...
I read somewhere that they are recovering from the crisis. The government didn't try to save failing companies. Who really creates new money is the state through the central bank, not bankers.* And it does use it as a form of spending since the central bank is constantly buying state debt, and when the debt bonds expire in the hand of the central bank, the treasury doesn't pay for it (as it would be the state paying to the state...). Inflation is also hidden tax. And it's worse than that, due to the reasons explained above.* Okay, when the compulsory decreases, banks do create new money through the fractional reserve system. But the compulsory stays constant most of the time. It's the central bank that really drives inflation. Exactly. In central banking, Keynesian systems, inflation is used to manipulate the interest rate. The interest rate is a fundamental price that guides people planning in what concerns time. ("The market coordinates time with interest" http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0nERTFo-Sk )Inflation alone is bad thing because it's a "hidden tax". Taxes are all bad, and the more hidden they are, the worse. But inflation in our current system is even worse, as it creates business cycles that end up destroying lots of capital. I never heard this acronym before but this statement is not right.Market prices help entrepreneurs finding out which activities allocate resources better. Some of these activities may bring you large gains, why not? It's not positive... you have to spend a fortune, and what could you accomplish? In the best scenario you would attack some exchanges and get some cash, but then, that would identify you, since cash transfers are not anonymous. You wouldn't manage to make a positive ROI by doing cash-in-the-mail exchanges!Seriously, I can't see how such an attack would be profitable. I bet that, if you're willing to engage in criminal activities, there are probably much better ROIs you could obtain with such an investment.... Brazil has the 5th largest internet population. http://www.internetworldstats.com/top20.htm (well, it's the 5th largest world population anyway, if Pakistan haven't yet passed, so it's just average...)It might not be cheap, but it's perfectly possible to run bitcoin.I hope it happens: http://seasteading.org/ Somebody correct me if I'm wrong, but all that can be done by outcoming the network computing power is double-spending, right? More precisely, rewriting recent blocks.I think we all agree that there is no monetary incentive to do so... the costs clearly outweigh the benefits.And even thinking on the possibility of a politically motivated action... what exactly could they accomplish with it? If they start double-spending, they would hardly remain anonymous for too long... their victims would eventually denounce it, and the sorcery would turn against the sorcerer. Besides double-spending, they could erase transactions... but still, is that worth such a big investment? Particularly in a post-wikileaks world where this action could eventually become public?I really don't think this is the kind of thing we should worry about. He was probably talking about the default client generator.There are many different implementations of generators out there. If someone creates one that reuses the generation address, there's no reason to refuse the generated blocks. I don't know. If I knew, I'd be working on it.  I don't know, but, if the US government ever decide to attack bitcoins as strong as sometimes people here imagine it might, like trying to forbid it completly and throwing TERRORIST!!!-like accusation towards bitcoin users, you bet that there are a few anti-american governments out there who would really consider embracing the technology. Pretty much like the Brazilian government offering protection to Julian Assange.... hehe, had wikileaks published dirty secrets of the Brazilian scum, things would be quite different.   I'm sorry, but the article is silly.The only considerable risk is the legal one (number 2). But then, fighting the current banking system isn't the whole purpose of this idea anyway? Does anyone expect it to be easy?And about competition, that might represent a risk for someone that puts all his eggs on bitcoins, but in general, if something better come up, we should celebrate. No, they won't.http://mises.org/daily/4466 You probably didn't lose your coins, if you transfered to the correct address.It's just that restoring a backup like that is not automatic yet, you must force the indexation by deleting the block chain from your computer. That's anonymity you want. Why Tor isn't enough?Actually, encrypting won't make it anonymous, the nodes you're connecting to would see the messages coming from you.By the way, are propagated messages any different from those sent by their creators? I can see the advantage on the authentication part. You could have a set of trusted nodes to connect to in order to avoid being "surrounded" by attackers. But, as most people minded with security (banks and other institutions included) will probably hide their IP, this wouldn't be so useful, unless the client could connect to hidden services. But then the anonymity network itself guarantees authenticity, no need for the client to sign its messages...Now, on the encryption part of an SSH-like connection, I fail to see the advantages. All messages your client send are supposed to be propagated to the entire public network anyway. They are not secret. Why encrypt?I'd rather change your request to something like "being able to configure a set of IPs and/or Tor/I2P hidden services ids to connect to".  I don't if that's what you meant, but I think that if bitcoins adoption grows faster than governments reaction capacity (like the Internet did), I think they'd eventually create something like a "whitelist" of addresses, which they would control as they do with bank accounts - no anonymity, taxes etc.No business would be authorized to use an undeclared address, and transfers from declared addresses to undeclared ones would be illegal. Foreigners would be given a way to convert their undeclared addresses to declared ones, probably by paying fees. The state doesn't solve anything "peacefully", since it's a violent institution by definition.But I know what you mean.I once wrote something about it, but it's in Portuguese, you may check if an auto translation is understandable: http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=fr&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=pt&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mises.org.br%2FArticle.aspx%3Fid%3D605If you are really curious on how conflicts can be solved without a monopoly of violence search about medieval Ireland or Iceland, Merchant Law and so on... at the end of the text I liked above there are some references, in English. This short book is good too: http://mises.org/books/chaostheory.pdf Of course, but he's the first one I see on these forums at least. Or maybe you're just mixing normal debt with state debt. State debt can be viewed as slavery since they force others to pay it. But then, isn't just the debt, absolutely everything the state does implies in slavery... (maybe servitude is a better word...) Are you really suggesting that if you ask to borrow my money and I agree to lend, I'm enslaving you? And that if you run away with what is mine without ever paying back you're not robbing me, just liberating yourself?I see no gray shade there, this is plain wrong... it would only be comparable to slavery if I had forced you to accept it somehow, but then it's not lending anymore, it's extortion or worse.You might have issues with the current centralized banking system, as we all here have. But the act of lending is perfectly OK and voluntary, there's no slavery there. Actually, loans are something really fundamental for economic growth, it's through them that savers feed investors.
Slavery is an aggression. It's suppressing self-ownership.How can debt be even compared to that? Not paying a debt that is an aggression (theft). Why are you saying that debt=slavery? Loans are just contracts. Even generators may delegate the task of verifying valid transactions (the task which needs the entire chain) to somebody else.Today you could already implement a generator that parses the blockexplorer instead of downloading all blocks, for example. More efficient solutions may come up. GPL-advocates believe that simply by releasing with this license you'd prevent proprietary-software-scams??Seriously? Do you really think that somebody willing to steal people's money will even bother to know what's the software license? It's not "pointless". Trying to ostracize criminals is important. But this idea in particular is not practical for the described here: Ok, seems fair enough... I will give it a try.  Please also keep in mind that not every bitcoin-owner will read this forum topoic. Wow, basically, it disables the web... It's comparable to live in a plastic bubble in order not to get air contagious diseases. I think that if you go for such business model, you'll hardly scale... If you remain "little", the chance of attracting the tax man is probably small. So, don't even worry. If you just copy, without removing the original file from ~/.bitcoin, you won't have any of the issues you're talking about.Don't delete the original file, just make an extra, encrypted copy. I also recommend this podcast on the subject: http://fee.org/media/video/stateless-in-somalia/The part where he explains how money supply stabilized in Somalia is quite interesting  +1 They always were. That place always was hell on earth.During the period they didn't have a government and all fighting clans finally realized none of them was powerful enough to become the new government, they've witness few improvements never seen before. Not enough to bring the country even close to current world standards, but a good improvement for Somalia nevertheless. And yes, this period is over, thanks to ONU and other foreign governments...Just one example. When the government fell, the whole country had one commercial airplane, controlled by the monopolistic state company. At 2005, they had more than 50 if I remember well, and something like 15 companies.Just read the topic article, or wikipedia:  https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Anarchy_in_Somalia Nice!Could you make it configurable? This way, I think you could easily submit your patch, there's no reason to refuse these kind of things. You don't need to be online in order to receive a payment. The blockchain logs X bitcoins to address A, and that's it. To send them, then you need to sign your transaction with your private key. And it's not difficult at all to imagine physical, off line representations of bitcoins that would work pretty much like bank notes did during gold standard. If really demanded, that will be done. All you need to recognize an authentic bitcoin transfer is the proper software. And you can have mathematical certitude that it is authentic. Bitcoins authenticity is much easier to recognize than physical money.I don't think he meant "recognizability" in the sense of being "famous"... but I didn't watch the video...No? You can carry all bitcoins in existence in your pocket if you manage to put them all in one only address. How is that compared to cash?By the way, Walter Block is an economist on the Mises Institute if I'm not wrong. He has a book from which I've read a few chapters, Defending the Undefendable, it looks interesting... it's on my "to read" list. Those are old satellites that they don't really use for military purposes anymore, and they don't have any sort of encryption or whatever. People are already hijacking them to made radio communication, even for chatting.I've posted a link on the other topic I linked above. There are some videos on youtube too.Hijacking them seems simple. The question is whether it's feasible to pass data channels through them... But if the value exists for you, it can't be intrinsic to the ice cream. The value is in you, in your opinions, in your mind. If you're gone, such value is gone, although all properties really inherent to the ice cream remain."Should money have utility other than trade utility ?"There, better. And I bet that if people were used to these terms, they wouldn't spend much time thinking to answer "No, something doesn't need to be useful for A in order to be useful for B, being A and B completely unrelated"But even libertarians quite often don't understand that, and I bet that the fact that so many people constantly throw phrases like "Real money must have intrinsic value!" (sic) is related to the problem. They want to: http://seasteading.org/I hope they manage. 
True. That's also why I created this topic, to try to see if people already know of "alternative infrastructures".The main problem with internet access - in what concerns avoiding censorship - is that it depends on physical infrastructure to provide the link between ISPs and clients. Even wireless networks like 3G need antennas who can't be too far from the end points. By too far I mean a continent away.The only type of link that can avoid this is satellite. For example, somebody could launch satellites that would take connections from anywhere in the world and, by having a physical infrastructure in a place controlled by a still-not-so-authoritarian government, link censorship victims to the open internet, anonymously and cersorshipfree. Of course, authoritarian governments would forbid their citizens from accessing such network, but as long as the equipment needed to connect to it is cheap enough and small enough to be hidden, I suppose it would be difficult to trace down everyone. And with bitcoins, clients could pay for their access anonymously too - the problem here would be how to obtain bitcoins in such a hostile place... I imagine it would be almost like drug dealing...Now, all that said... launching satellites is expensive! I suppose the costs of launching a satellite largely outcomes the revenues one would expect to have from it. That's why I asked on that topic if it would be possible to hijack those US military satellites for such purpose.  It won't help that much, it's quite easy to block all Tor bridges.I have a hard time imagining services being provided to a not-so-geek audience by such means... Yes, that's what I mean. And there are a lot of people who still believe in that.If we here, that do understand the difference, keep using terms that only have meaning when this false theory is true (intrinsic value) we'd be just fueling even more this misunderstanding.That's somehow what Gary North says in his text: http://www.thefreemanonline.org/featured/the-fallacy-of-quotintrinsic-valuequot/ There not two different definitions (economic vs common). I've posted before the dictionary entry. An intrinsic attribute of something is inseparable from the thing itself. Value just can't be intrinsic. Ever. Yeah, but, you know, the cypherspace needs a physical space to exist... The Chinese government is already successfully blocking Tor, for example. Yes, Chinese geeks manage to escape, but once a technology becomes popular enough to be more accessible to not-so-geek folks, then the government can always block if they are really determined. They could go as far as creating a "whitelist" sort of blocking instead of the blacklist model they use right now. (by whitelist I mean you block everything with the exception of a specific list, instead of allowing everything with the exception of a specific list)It's complicated... but anyway, I also think that cryptography+p2p networks will help society a lot, for sure. WTFx2 !?What the hell is your problem with miscegenation? The value of tobacco is not an intrinsic property of it. The intrinsic properties it has that make it useful for smokers are not its value, nor determine it. Previous belief that value was an attribute of stuff led to serious economic misunderstandings - and it does until today. That's why I'm being pedantic and asking you people not to spread this mistake. "Come on", it's not that difficult  If you've agreed that anything has intrinsic value then you've agreed on a fallacy.Just understand the terms you're using, they have a meaning.If value is on the beholder only - and it is - it can't be an inseparable attribute of valued things. No, you're contradicting yourself. Just read again what I said. Something cannot be a subjective opinion of the beholder and an intrinsic feature all at the same time. And utility is not value. People, please, stop spreading misinformation! There's no such thing as intrinsic value, this is a fallacy. A fallacy on which Marxism is based, by the way!intrinsic (comparative more intrinsic, superlative most intrinsic)innate, inherent, inseparable from the thing itself, essential(of a body part, relating to anatomy) comprising, being part of a wholeTherefore, by the definition of instrinsic, and by the fact that value is subjective (it's an opinion people have on stuff, not something innate, inherent, inseparable from the thing itself), intrinsic value is a contradiction in terms.Also, do not confuse utility with value. Water is a buzillion times more useful than gold, nevertheless gold is much more valuable. Isn't there any sort of pegging between the Swiss Franc and this WIR currency? Like, is it an independent, floating-value currency?The wiki article is very biased by the way.Here it implicitly assumes that for profiting means not serving the interest of clients, what is obviously not true.If it is anyhow linked to the Swiss Franc, this is not true. If it has to obey to the Swiss central bank, then it also carries the same fundamental flaws as the "current banking system".The main difference is that the Swiss central bank has a reputation of not being such irresponsible as other central banks. They expand the monetary base very slowly, normally. WTF!? Anyone could perform such change. It's open source.If you make a fundamental change, you'll probably end up forking the project. Some might follow you, some will remain using the previous branch. Dollar parity can come much before that. The internet economy alone is much, much bigger than current bitcoin's 1,5M$. There's much room for valuation before every bar or grocery store accepts it.I agree with those who think parity will come this year. This is a good point.Ok, viruses can steal bitcoins even if the wallet is encrypted. But an unencrypted wallet is much more vulnerable than that. Any asshole that happens to have access to your computer may steal them from you. This may vary from an angry-ex-(girl|boy)friend to a computer technician who was there just to fix something...Anyway, currently only geeks use the client, so this is not a big issue. But if we want to go mainstream, we need more security/safety features. The simple fact that the client doesn't ask confirmation before sending a transfer for example is quite dangerous... a typo and you can get screwed! Nice!It would also be cool if we could add a short description text to it, where the merchant could identify himself and maybe describe the transaction. This could be useful for controlling how you spend your coins. Aunque no encuentres mucha gente aquí en el foro, creo que tal servicio podría ser de grande utilidad a los mexicanos que viven en los estados unidos. Convertir los dólares en bitcoins, transferirlas,  y después convertirlas en pesos mexicanos seria probablemente mucho más barato y práctico que los métodos convencionales. Eso podría finalmente ser la "killer app" que introduciría las bitcoins a los que no son ni libertarios ni geeks.  Have you tried asking them, directly?Maybe they have even a better API than the CSV... Indeed, too hard to beat Google.Such service would probably be of great use by black or "gray" markets that have a hard time advertising on (or receiving ads from) conventional sites. This could also allow a stronger anonymous financial support for hidden services... again, black markets...Quite dangerous your venture, I'd say... True, that's a security risk. I don't see how to remove it completely, but it could be mitigated byMaking cards with an expire date.Improving fraud detection by physically tracing each card. Something like every merchant that verifies the validity of a card also publishes somewhere that "card X was here at this timestamp". This way the issuer might detect cloned cards faster.As long as counterfeiting such cards is harder or as difficult as counterfeiting paper money, this can be see as an improvement... think about credit cards... all you need is to get hold of the numbers written on it and it's done, you can use somebody else's money to buy stuff on the net.But yeah, it starts to get so complicated to implement it that maybe smartphones apps will be much more popular and efficient.
This problem could be avoided if we could assure that the only way the coins in a card could be spent was through the card destruction.A way I can think of implementing this is by having only part of the bitcoin private key on the card, and the other part remains under possession of the issuer. Only the issuer, with the card in hands, could then sign a transaction. Such issuer could assure that all cards are destroyed right after such signature.This would require a second, full private key in the card for signing challenges - and the issuer would have to sign the public part of this key as well - and, of course, would render the cashing-out of such cards more complicated. But, well, if they are supposed to be used as physical cash, this is much like how bank notes backed by gold were redeemed in the past. Interest rates are a price. The price for "renting savings". As the price of anything else, it drops when the supply increases, demand being constant.If lenders keep increasing their savings to lend more and more, they'll be increasing the supply of savings available for lending, thus decreasing the price one has to pay to have access to it. At an extreme, the interest rates might barely cover the expanses of the lending process itself.Also, with such low interest rates, consuming/investing becomes so easy, that many will do it. A raise in consumption decreases the savings available... these "forces" push to an equilibrium, that's of course unreachable since the variables of this equation are changing all the time. Why? Each card should contain a different bitcoin private key, the key that owns the amount... is this key that should be used to sign challenges... No, it gets harder and harder, the interest rate decreases until the point it's not worth lending any more.Lots of savings allow easier consumption. People will stop saving so much and consume/invest more. I thought smart cards were designed in a way that stealing the private content of the memory was practically unfeasible.... isn't that the big deal about smart cards? You can rely on trust on the issuer, that's not a major problem, I think. All you need is a way to be sure it really was the issuer you trust who created that smart card, and that could be done by a simple signature of the card address/public key.The problem I see in this is the card production cost... is it as cheap as a piece of paper? If the cost is high, this would only be useful for larger amounts of bitcoins, never for pennies... Your hypothesis is just impossible.And no, you don't need to have all money in existence being borrowed to have a credit market. Just a fraction is enough. Naturally, the higher this fraction is, the lower the interest rates will tend to be.Interest rates are a fundamental price. They reflect people temporal preferences versus the amount of savings in the economy. These things exist despite monetary inflation. So?Interest rates don't depend on monetary inflation.  Depending on where you live, or mainly, how your house is (if it has a closed yard, if it is on a rural area etc) they cannot easily control that. It's an antenna not that big, you can hide. Yes. Ah, just remember that the software won't automatically know how to decrypt it. If you want to always keep the wallet.dat used by the client encrypted, you'll need some sort of script to decrypt it before launching the client.The best approach to protect your bitcoins is to transfer the amount that you want to "keep safe" to a new wallet, encrypt and back up this wallet on off line medias and maybe on a remote server. And don't forget to back up your encryption keys too.  The default client doesn't have this built-in but you may always use an encryption tool. FreeMoney gave a good explanation.Even if you don't lend your savings to investors, the simple fact that you save - that is, you produce more than you consume - allows others to have easier access to the goods that you restrained yourself from consuming. This production share will be there, available for investors to use more easily. Wait, but then the correction was not the good one, IMHO...The best solution would be to change the sending priority. The client would first pick confirmed coins, since unconfirmed ones may remain like that for an indeterminate time. Maybe a warning message when there are only unconfirmed coins to be sent could be useful too. But completely blocking sounds "too authoritarian" to me... it's not up to the software to decide that.By the way, the wiki section gives the impression that is the network that refuses <0,01 transactions, instead of the default miner. If I mine a block with my custom miner and accept to put <0,01 transactions in it, the default client won't refuse them, right?Also, one doubt that I once had... can somebody else than the send of a transaction add fees to it? Suppose I'm the receiver of a transaction and I'm in a hurry, but the sender isn't.... so he sends a free transactions, that takes too long to get confirmed... could I add a few bitcents to it in order to get it processed quicker? Why doesn't the default client let unconfirmed coins to be sent? It seems an unnecessary limitation to me... ha! Soon we'll be hearing about stamps counterfeiting...  Nice. Who would be the spokesman? I find it quite expensive though.... $1000, is it worth that much? Has any agorist geek, expert on networks, ever tried to study the possibility of passing data channels through these easily hijack-ables US military satellites? http://www.wired.com/politics/security/news/2009/04/fleetcom?currentPage=allI doubt it would allow for a good bandwith, it and the simple fact that is satellite probably impose a significant lag. But, anyway, if it works, it could be a feasible option to those under the Great Firewall of China for example.Somebody could come out with an open protocol to allow the routing from this pirate-satellite-network to the Internet. Bitcoins could be used to pay for the routing service.It would be interesting if possible.  Agora que o davout abriu o código da exchange dele, está ainda mais fácil de fazer uma exchange BTC<->BRL.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2585.0Alguém com um pouco de experiência em Rails (não tenho nenhuma  ) e que esteja no Brasil caso precise de uma conta bancária ou algo assim, poderia fazer.Alguém se candidata?  Congratulations! This is cool.And thank you too, anonymous donor. 
+1 Your rich attacker would have to spend quite a lot on transactions fees. Like ? There are some interesting things you can buy with bitcoins already, but yes, mostly you can't do much with them. But hey, come on, the whole project has barely two years! Most entrepreneurs here are geeks investing their own time, with no financial support from big investors. Give some time... new services are popping up... maybe someday something big will come out, and might push it over the mainstream.About wikileaks, they are already aware about bitcoins, but they've (wisely) chosen not to use it because they know the project is yet too young for their needs.I think what we need the most right now are more exchanges, in different currencies. That would make bitcoin a cheap way to transfer money overseas, what's already something big. Why? Bitcoins are a commodity. A commodity doesn't need to be something physical... often stocks, debt bonds, fiat currencies and other financial assets are treated as commodities. The main requirement I see to treat something as a commodity is that different units of this something have the same value (like, different 1g bars of pure gold have the same value, as different 1 dollar bills). This way you can talk about a global price for the commodity itself, like the price of gold, the price of Google stocks etc...Bitcoins are pretty much like gold. Not backed by anything, and yet quite good to be used as money/store of value due to their inherent properties.No, that's not what makes good money. Again, gold is not backed by anything and it's quite a good thing to be used as money.What makes something good money are attributes like:Limited supplyEasy to transfer, stock and protectHigh divisibilityOf course, it has to be a commodity as I defined above This feeling people have that money should be useful for something else has already been discussed here in other topics.Money doesn't need to be useful for anything else, it just need to be good money. Actually, insisting on this is like insisting on refusing one of the main advantages of capitalism, that is resource specialization. Why waste gold as money when you have better suited stuff to be used as money (bitcoins ) and gold is the only metal that suits some other uses? Resource specialization is fundamental to economic growth. While people keep using gold as money/store of value, those other uses only gold can accomplish will be much more expensive than they needed to be. I was going to say exactly what grondilu said. Trying to make such a "backing" introduces centralization. The backing institution could be taken over by governments. It doesn't really add safety, and I don't see any economic incentive for such institution to do such backing. No, it's not really desirable to do this.Bitcoin is the commodity itself. It is not a contract. It doesn't need to be backed by anything the same way gold didn't need to be backed by anything. Bitcoin could be really useful to immigrants who send money to their families in 3rd world countries. But, before such a thing could happen, there should be more exchanges on different currencies  hehe, maybe by the government, but not by the mob: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALXBlAk1wKwThis one is nice too: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63xNCYrj7Vk If we really want to give the average user a good chance of protecting his wallet, it would be more effective to allow the split of a wallet by just "pressing a button". A new wallet file, encrypted with a given password, would be created, and the corresponding coins would not be on the main file anymore. Then the program recommends the user to keep multiple backups of this piece of wallet on safe, disconnected devices.I know all this can be done manually or with scripting, but I just don't see my parents doing so. This is the best approach in terms of security. But Gavin has a really good point when he says that a built-in encryption gives the feeling of security, and may increase bitcoin adoption. And, well, such protection can be effective against not-so-expert attacks, for instance somebody that happens to have access to your computer while you're not there (a "friend" that you shouldn't have trusted, that new nanny you just hired etc...). Of course, such kind of risk will only be something to worry about when bitcoin reaches mainstream, and by then we'll probably have multiple clients doing built-in encryption... +1 Any chances of sending euros through bank transfer, like bitcoinexchange used to do? (By the way, anyone knows why they are gone?) Isn't there a confusion here?Making anonymous transfers is not money laundering. As far as I understand, money laundering consists in converting "dirty income" into official, tax-paying income. So, it's not anonymous transfers a money launder needs, it's "fake transactions" that really look like an official one. It's better not to try to cover your traces with anonymous transactions because that may raise even more alerts...I mean, suppose you have a dirty income. Throwing it into an "anonymous gateway" like bitcoin services won't make it clean.... you'll still need to find an official justification for your income.I confess I'm not at all an expert in money laundering so I may be missing something.  This is cool.And how will this operate? You'll convert received EUR to USD or are you actually creating a EUR<->BTC exchange? Unless you're talking about a generation pool, whenever you generate a block you get all the reward for that block, not a "share". The reward are the new coins (current 50 per block, until block 210.000) and the transaction fees.The more computing power you have, the more hashes per second you can try, what increases the chances of finding the good hash and generating a block. Good idea. I was thinking something like that recently. One problem of these anonymous p2p networks is the lack of monetary incentive for those who donate their bandwidth. Plus, with this China thing, not only you need to be willing to donate bandwidth freely, as you'll also have your IP blocked from accessing anything inside the Great Firewall.If we could figure out a way to combine Tor and BTC in order to allow micro-donations to those who contribute with their bandwidth, this could create a better incentive for more Tor relays. If a protocol could be developed in a way that Tor relays would only redirect "paying traffic", this could bring professional, profit oriented players to the Tor network, and bust its bandwidth considerably.But it's a bit hard to implement such a thing in a way that scales... paying for each data packet would create an immense amount of overhead to both networks, so there should be some sort of "long term subscription"...Anyway, it's complicated... I might create a topic to discuss these better with all the clever people of this forum, but not tonight, too late already.  @grondilu,You might want to add to your "specification" that you want free software...  If the address is a hash of the true public key, how are transactions verified? The sender attaches the public key of all output addresses to the transaction? If so, if an address has ever been used to send any coins, it should be possible to retrieve its public key from the chain... How? They are identifying and blocking each Tor relay? I see you never lived under hyperinflation. I know you were talking about price deflation, and "hyperdeflation" doesn't exist. But some level of stability and predictability is important.In an economy under stable money supply you do have enough of it.
Actually, most of the world is against you.This text gives a good idea why: http://mises.org/daily/4700 At least in what concerns the antimarket bias, it's part of human nature. Exactly. I find that much more effective than trying to evangelize people. Ah não, mas quando falava de paypal, estava pensando na possibilidade de uma exchange entre BTC e BRL usando PaypalBRL... PaypalUSD tem o risco de chargeback, não tem mais ninguém vendendo BTC por PaypalUSD depois das fraudes que o MtGox sofreu. Nem perca seu tempo e dinheiro tentando adquirir dólares paypal... Opções?O MtGox quando começou só fazia compra e venda mesmo... depois que foi implementando todas as features.Acho que só de ter uma exchange BRL<->BTC já seria um estímulo a mais brasileiros usarem bitcoins. Por exemplo, conheço brasileiros que moram aqui na Europa e que vivem procurando meios de transferir grana pro Brasil mais em conta...Teria que ver como funciona o paypal em reais. Eu acho que no Brasil não existe charge-back, mas não tenho certeza. Se for assim, aí seria relativamente seguro implementar uma exchange usando paypal. Bom, é sempre uma dúvida a questão fiscal né... Seria muito legal! Por outro lado, se brasileiros não conseguirem comprar BTCs facilmente, acho que você não vai conseguir vender muita recarga... e mesmo você teria dificuldade para pagar o fornecedor, não?O que faz falta mesmo é uma exchange... It would be really nice if an employer find a way to pay people in BTC.But I guess it isn't that simple... for example, what about minimum wage laws? Don't they force you to pay a minimum amount in the official currency?In Brazil, there are laws that forbids the employer from decreasing the nominal value of a salary. Isn't the same for the US? Fixing the the salary in BTC and paying with USD would be really risky in such case, as you wouldn't be allowed to decrease the USD amount.Maybe the easiest way is to have an official, minimum wage salary in USD, and all the rest paid as "variant complement" in BTC... but even that might bring the unions on you... Achei esse site numa busca rápida: http://senhormoney.com/categories.php?page=view&id=82Não sei se é confiável. Você poderia começar com pequenas quantidades. Aí com o LibertyReserve você compra bitcoins no MtGox. Infelizmente ninguém abriu ainda uma exchange BRL<->BTC... uma pena, no Brasil acho que não existe o risco do charge-back, então acho que poderiam até mesmo usar o paypal... enfim...Eu não estou no Brasil, então não sei como outros brasileiros estão fazendo para comprar BTCs a partir de reais... sei que não sou o único brasileiro no fórum, acho que o cara da loteria (nelisk ou algo assim) também é brasileiro... tenta entrar em contato direto com ele.Você já viu se não dá pra comprar LibertyReserveUSD ou PaxumUSD com um cartão de crédito brasileiro? By the way, this is the first time I open bitcoin watch and I see a lower than 6 block per hour average... It doesn't make much sense having the rate on bitcoin.org because there is no "official rate". There are different exchanges, from cash-in-the-mail to credit cards, and prices floats freely on them.If you want a good summary of bitcoin data there is http://bitcoinwatch.com What you mean?If you have the means to start your ISP, you should just be able to do it without having to ask any sort of permission/license, nor abiding to any imposed rules. But then this is the true problem, not net neutrality. Enforcing net neutrality is like creating another problem to try to fix a previous one.ISPs should be free to provide services as they want. At the same time, everyone should have the right to start an ISP.... They could eventually forbid all encrypted communication, except those listed as "legal". So, they would keep letting you access your bank with HTTPS, but you wouldn't go much further than the services the government control.This would be quite a 1984 scenario, I don't think it will ever happen. Well, I hope... Unless you find some good lawyers that can make bitcoin pass as a generic commodity exchange, and not currency, since it's not an official currency of any state.Are the same demands applicable for gold and silver exchanges? The default implementation uses a specific (custom) type of keystore, as far as I know. So it would be better if it provides the means to manipulate the keys in it. In terms of maintenance, being an external tool or not it will remain a job for the same developer community since this tool would be completely linked to bitcoin's specific type of keystore.What I mean is, your unix motto of "do just one thing, but do it well' doesn't apply while the bitcoin client remains coupled to a custom type of keystore. It is already doing more than one thing.The ideal scenario would be a client not strongly coupled to any type of keystore. In this case, one could make a build/config of the client that uses a more standardized type of keystore which already has all the tools to manipulate the keys in it. heheNot to mention that trying to block porn from a kid old enough to want it is quite useless... at this age, the kid will probably be smarter than his parents regarding technology, and will bypass any sort of protection.Parental control protects only against accidental accesses, not intentional ones. The transfer was free to me (I live in France).So, what you want to create isn't exactly an exchange but a "selling site", right? Because if it was an exchange you shouldn't bother with having enough coins.Well, sorry, but I can't help you there... I don't have that many bitcoins, and I'd like to buy more instead of sell, so... +2That's just too long. +1I think the same. Since it was chosen to use a specific type of keystore to hold bitcoin keys, there should be a way to manipulate the keys in this keystore.What would be really ideal from an architectural point of view would be a client that is decoupled from the keystore type. Just by configuring something and implementing an interface you could plug another type of keystore and use it.But, well, that has a lower priority, I'd say. There's a big psychological difference between "free" and "non-free"... there are some interesting experiments there.That might have decrease the number of orders somehow... but you may be right too, it's a very tiny fee.... anyway, I was just speculating... 
If it's impossible it's impossible  Nothing to be done.But why not being able to export them when it is possible? It's your keystore anyway, you should be able to manipulate it. If you depend on trust you're not proving anything. Normally proofs are asked exactly when there isn't enough confidence.The proof is valid while the funds remain in the same address. They may remain there for a long time. I meant the funds. But even the account number, how do you prove it's yours? The account numbers go to the chain somehow?Well, if you can export keys, you can sign with them using an external tool at least.As far as I understand, the link "gpg key" => "arbitrary identity" is possible, since proof of gpg key ownership is possible though signature.But "arbitrary identity" => "gpg key" I can't see how, since there's no generic way to prove ownership of an arbitrary identity.Like, I can create a GPG key and link it to your name. But that isn't my name. See what I mean?You just sign something with the same private key that owns the coins and that's it, you prove you own such coins. The other party just need to check the block chain to confirm. It doesn't need to be monolithic. The code that manages the wallet doesn't have to be the same that interacts to the network. They'd better not be, imho.The wallet is a specific type of keystore. As a keystore, it would be nice to be able to import/export keys, and actually using them.For example, another use case would be to encrypt some message for the owner of address X only. It could be encrypted using the public key of such address. The receiver must be able to retrieve the corresponding private key and use it to decrypt the message. Signing with a bitcoin private key provides proof of ownership. This may have many use cases. It's a good feature.Also, being able to split/merge wallets is interesting too. Today maybe not much, since transfers are free. But they won't remain free forever, and even today, each transfer does imply in a small cost to the entire network. Merging/splitting wallets would be a way to move money around without using the chain. It's also a good feature to have.Can you? I don't know how... I thought the account feature wasn't even public... can anyone knows how much I own on account X just by checking the block chain?How do I create a key related to this account and use it to sign something, proving that I am the owner of such amount? This would be nice.Actually it would be even nicer if we could treat our wallet.dat file as a generic keystore, importing and exporting keys.This would allow merging and splitting of wallets as well, besides signatures as suggested above. Governments want to control the internet the same way they control conventional media (TVs, newspapers etc).They will get there, eventually.I hope by then systems like Tor, I2P and others are the most user-friendly and widely known as possible, so all sort of "computer-illiterate" people can use them. I'm not sure it's the dark pools or the transaction fee instead. Before, transactions were free... Isn't your CPU overheating? Although normally when it overheats, it shuts down instead. I used to have overheating problems.There should be a debug file somewhere, probably on ~/.bitcoin... check if there is something suspicious there and post it here. I can't help you much but there are people here who could.By the way, forget about CPU generation. It's just not worth it. If you have a GPU, try a GPU miner. Why not using bitcoins addressees themselves, instead of separate keys?Like, a 0,01µBTC could be the representation of an asset. Then all you have to do is transfer this particular coin fragment around, and whoever owns it, owns the asset. Ownership could be proven with a simple signature performed by the private key that owns the coin fragment.It's a pity to "burn" coins like that for another purpose, but such a small amount shouldn't make any difference.Now, this scheme would be really powerful if there could be a way to make conditional transfers. Like, owner of the asset says "I transfer my asset S to the owner of address A only if X bitoins are transferred to address B" and the buyer says "I transfer X bitcoins to address B only if asset S is transferred to address A". Then the system validates both transactions at the same time since they are co-dependent. Cool! From the north of Norway to the south of Chile bitcoins are present!  It would be really nice to have an euro exchange. This is great.And when you say accepting euros, does that means I'll be able to transfer you euros which will be automatically converted to dollars into my mtgox account, or will us be able to have the 3 different currencies in mtgox? Like, will you create an EUR-BTC exchange on your platform, with different charts and all? Interesting (if I understood well).Banks could build some sort of "reliable node set" to protect themselves.Also, connecting through IP-masking networks like Tor wouldn't be a way to protect yourself against such attack?It's complicated to conduct such attack too, I think... the bank has to keep receiving and sending to the normal network, otherwise they may suspect something is wrong, after complaints from their clients. So the attacker would have to reproduce all transactions from the real network while decreasing the difficulty. During this period they will produce much less blocks (since they have much less computing power) than the true network... that makes it difficult to mimic the transactions, and the bank might realize something is wrong (transactions get too long to confirm etc). Also, if anybody tries to send any of the coins produced after the "surrounding", the banking will not be able to receive it.. it will probably treat them as "illegal coins" what may raise alerts too.It seems very difficult. Fairness and democracy have nothing to do with one another.It's fair if you are rewarded proportionally to what you contribute. The more hashing power you add to the chain, the more you contribute, and the more you are rewarded. This is fair.What are you talking about? There's no "core issue" with capitalism being denounced here. There's a core with issue with governments (money monopoly, central banking..), which bitcoins are designed to bypass.Oh boy, we're dealing with a watermelon here...It's not free, and you do have the convenience, just buy GPUs and install the proper software.There are many people trying to establish such services, it's just not easy, due to credit card charge backs.There is one service where you can buy bitcoins with an US credit card. They perform several checks on your identity before allowing you to buy. Agreements? http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/dec/03/wikileaks-us-manipulated-climate-accordI don't authorize any government to represent me (and I happen to live in a country, so...) Penn & Teller have an episode on this carbon credit bullshit: http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=1325805851224851246#It's good, I recommend it (as all BS episodes actually) How would you prevent people from sharing the file once they download it? Or you don't care? I understood what you want. It's more the reason that I don't get.If it's more from an "investor" point of view (raising the value of bitcoins for profit), then, ok, it makes sense you wanting that. But if it is because you think this is important for the currency itself, otherwise it wouldn't be a good currency etc, then you're wrong.Now, about finding other uses... I don't think there can be another use for bitcoins which wouldn't have more efficient alternatives. Like your suggestion, timestamping... I bet there are better ways to do it then with bitcoins. So, I wouldn't waste much effort in this idea if I were you... Oh boy, it seems people will never get over this intrinsic value fallacy.It's actually funny... one of the advantages capitalism brings is specialization. Not only skill specialization, but resources as a whole. Always trying to use the best cost/effective material for a certain purpose.So, why do you people want money to be useful for something else? Why, particularly for money, people are against specialization in the use of resources?Money doesn't need to have other uses. Actually, I dare to say it would better not have other uses.And, by the way, why would one want to use money to timestamp stuff? Can't there be a cheaper (= most efficient) way to do it?
We are all thinking about people keeping their coins on their own devices, but people may use web services too.If both customer and retailer use MyBitcoin for ex., transaction confirmation could be instantaneous. In the future probably there will be many sites like mybitcoin, and they will have ways to integrate their transfers. Mostly like the banking system, "only" without the central bank.  One weekend that I stay away from the net and there are more than 300 messages unread from this forum... I can't keep your pace anymore!   So, an account balance doesn't always equal the summed balance of all address that belong to this account, that's right? Bitcoins are not pegged to anything, if that's what you're asking. Their price floats freely.There's no institution behind bitcoins, it's a P2P currency. hehe, peter, at least read the FAQ...  They remain down... it's bad, they are the most practical exchange for those who have euros. You don't know what you're talking about. Ah, I hadn't understand your question at first, now I see the problem.Hum, you could try to make some sort of dependent transaction... Something that only gets accepted by the network after some other transaction takes place in the main chain...Like, the generator adds a transaction, with a sort of message: only valid after bitcoin address A receives X bitcoins.... if the address never receives the money, a future block generator could add again the same transaction but asking less...It would be better if there could be some sort of bargain between the sender of the transaction and the generator, but I can't see how. The way I thought, you wouldn't be doing any real extra work to generate for the dependent chain. Your hashing is just for the main bitcoin chain. Once you generate a block there, you use that block private key to sign something that gives you the right to create a block on the dependent chain. There's no hashing for it.You get the bitcoin reward for the block you produced in the main chain and only that, since you didn't do much more than that anyway. And for a long time they have been poorer than the western European countries. By the way, most poor countries, if not all, do have a large portion of their economy in the "dark side".Black markets are not equivalent to free markets. The results aren't the same.I hope these so called agorists find a way to make them be, but I'm a bit skeptical, at least for the short run. I think most governments will keep growing until their size make their ruled society so miserable that the state's own legitimacy gets threatened. At this moment, they might back off and allow more freedom, because they wouldn't have much other choices. I agree with jgarzik, the chain should not be used as storage.If you want to create your own proof-of-work chain but would like to avoid double-work, you could make your parallel chain "dependent" on the bitcoin chain. Like, for creating a block in a dependent chain, you first have to create a block on the bitcoin chain and then use the private key you used to create that block to sign your new block on the dependent chain. I agree on the premise that we can't expect anything from the political process.But in your conclusion is complicated. If people just start running away from the state, that'll make it more intrusive and aggressive. Living in the "black market" is always difficult. By black market I mean anything not official, like undeclared labor, ambulant sellers who don't pay taxes etc.Don't fool yourself to think that a black market is just like a free market. It is not. The simple fact that people have to hide from the state limit them a lot, there are lots of things capitalism can provide that they cannot use because of their hidden condition. Trust becomes much more complicated as you have no means of pursuing some one, at least not in a "civilized" manner. When you can't trust anyone like this, your circle of relations gets much smaller, what limits the benefits of capitalism. If you ever had the chance of reading the book The Mistery of Capital, you get an idea of what I'm talking. Or, if you grew up in a third world country like me, you probably already know it.  My country has something like 40% of the economy in the "dark side", and that doesn't seem to help people, on the contrary... those working on the black market are mostly the poorest. I hope the internet (and bitcoins ) provide the means to people to escape government and also avoid all the problems unofficial markets have today... let's see.(also, I hope the seasteading project becomes a reality soon ) I find it a bit dangerous to give the final decision to the buyer.... at least in retail, it's the seller who has a reputation to care for. Buyers have less to lose in cheating.Not complaining about your site though, it's a good initiative.  What's a non-standard transaction? It has to store both, you can't deduce the public key from the private key...This is another reason to have a more modularized bitcoin software... someone could make a wallet-management module that uses a database instead of a file, to better scale...Is the wallet.dat file indexed? Have you tried to announce your service on Tor-users forums? It's a delicate dilemma I'd say.Is a slave that accepts a gift from his mater accepting his slave condition, or being hypocrite?Even when you know that the gift was produced with the stolen labor of other slaves, it's complicated to condemn the one that accepts it...While I was a student here in France, I benefited from their rent-aid program. I think such program should be extinguished, as many others, but anyway, I did get money from it.Now that I have a job they have already taken much more money from me than what they gave me before, so I don't regret at all. The idea is nice.But the image doesn't make me think of money... maybe inside of a coin? Did the value of gold drop sharply after the ban in 1933? (I really don't know)If the value kept, it means that people kept "hoarding" it as a "store of value". Maybe even if all exchanges are outlawed, people will still keep bitcoins just to protect their money against Bernake's gang.And, by the way, bitcoin is international... such ban would have to be orchestrated by most governments of the world to be that serious, otherwise it would be just "free advertising" as someone just said. I didn't know about this, that the protocol was "hard-wired" to the default client.Your suggestion is really important. Client software and protocol should be separate.It would help to have a protocol specification for this. The protocol version would only change when changes to the specification are made, not at every release of the client.
Then you have at least one address which is not backed up.  From what I understand, it would hardly be possible, at least with the flexibility you ask.The only way to transfer bitcoins without using the block chain is by moving around the private keys that own the coins. But then, I don't see how you could specify arbitrary amounts like that. You would only be able to create a new wallet with 50 BTC if you could separate a group of your private keys that together sum 50 BTC...To transfer coins from one key to another, you need the block chain...Sites like mtgox or mybitcoin could do that internally, when transferring from/to users of their system... they don't need to really do the transfer, just update the balance of each user. Of course that in such case, if I a user checks the balance of his addresses with the block explorer, he might see a different value than the actual one.I don't see why would such a feature be useful by the way, specially now that transfers are mostly free. Or you're already predicting the scenario where transactions are almost never free? Not anymore, now there is a pool of addresses stocked in advance. Every time the client needs one, it gets from this pool. The pool default size is 100 I guess.The client needs new addresses every time you send money and every time you create an address for reception. The reception itself doesn't need new keys. Interesting. How does this work?What stops a generator from including the transaction before its time? The signed transaction contains the date in it, in a way that it can't be separated?And how does the cancel message makes sure no generator will include the transaction in a block anyway? If you mean intrinsic attributes that make a particular thing useful for some particular usage, than bitcoins do have inherent attributes that make them useful as means of exchange. It's worse than pointless, it's misleading. Intrinsic value is a fallacy. This fallacious concept has been used to justify horrible economic theories. We should understand why value exist, and why it is not intrinsic to the valued stuff. That's not value. Utility if you will. But not value... The fallacy of intrinsic value is what allowed stupid theories like marxist labor-value to remain alive until present days. It is important to understand it, value is not intrinsic.The fallacy of intrinsic value, by Gary North. Only now that I saw this topic.Please, memorize: There is no such a thing as intrinsic value.Value is an opinion people have on stuff. It is not a characteristic of stuff themselves. It is important to remember it. If you say the value of something is intrinsic to this something, changing the value of this something would be changing the thing itself. So, for example, if somebody mines tones of new gold which eventually drop the value of your gold, you could accuse this person of violating your property rights, by changing it without your permission. This is nonsense.Understanding that value is not intrinsic was the main achievement of the austrian economics, which set them aside the "rest". What you may claim is that things have inherent characteristics that make them useful for certain purposes. For example, cotton has inherent characteristics that make it useful for making clothes.Now, if you ask, must money have some other utility than being a good means of exchange and store of value?My answer would be: what for? Isn't the specialization in resource usage one of the main features of capitalism?Gold is useful as money and for making jewelry and other industrial uses.Bitcoins are even more useful as money and.... that's it.So, why keep using gold as money, if we have something even better, and by using something else, more gold could be liberated for other uses where it has none or few substitutes? Why?I've been taking vitamin C every morning since the wheather started getting cold... how effective that is compared to vaccines? People do like to protect themselves.And even if it's true what you say, and immunization is a loss for the individual (I can't see it this way...), it's still interesting for insurance companies to come up with incentives for people to take vaccines.Actually, some authors predict that many of the rules today imposed by governments would be demanded by insurance companies. You may want to read "The Chaos Theory", from Robert Murphy. It is a short book where he tries to predict how many things could work in a free society. He talks a lot about insurances. Aren't you confusing free markets with gradient vectors? Seriously now, what you may be calling global optimum (the "perfect" situation) is humanly unreacheable. My statement would have been better if I had said "free markets push to the best possible optimization in resource usage".The "global optimum" is humanly unreacheable because it's humanly impossible to know all the information necessary to reach it, since we are dealing with people's opinion here, which are subjective. That is what I meant by my bold phrase above. It's impossible to know in advance what would be the best optimization. Your own example is flawed, as kiba already noticed:How do you know?What if there are lots of ice cream lovers on an area of the beach, and a lot of women on permanent diet on another area?What if some custumers won't take their lazy asses out of their chairs for an ice cream, but may eventually buy one when the seller passes by?And by the way, your condition of "uniform density of custumers" is by itself impractical too.What you did was a small attempt of central planning for a small economy example, and as you can see, you could already have done lots of mistakes. Now imagine how many mistakes will be done when you try to central plan a true economy. Nobody has the necessary information. If you let the free market process act, it will create the best set of incentives so that the individual actions benefit the entire society. Every time you initiate force though, you will be creating a bad incentive, either by distorcing prices, externalizing costs etc. There is something wrong on your quoting, kiba. I didn't say that. That was a response to me, actually... One thing that is important to make clear: free markets push to the best optimization in resource usage, balancing people demands and the scarcity of resources.Nobody knows in advance what is the best optimization. That's the knowledge problem, better described by Hayek.That said, let's try to answer you...Until here it's just a matter of personal choice. It's simply absurd to punish somebody for taking risks, or force manufactures to put more safety devices on their cars.I always wear the seatbelt and I find stupid not to. But I know people who simply detest the seatbelt and always avoid using them... The lack of seatbelts in taxis and lack of smoke-free environments are a similar "issue".You would like to have them, as I would. But these things come with a cost. Do you know if the cost for a bar owner for ex. to make his environment smoke-free are smaller than the benefits he would get of it? If they aren't, forcing them by law would be destroying wealth. If they are, then you don't need to force, he would do out of his self interest. In the Brazilian state I come from, as well in France where I live, such laws were approved in recent years. Many business owners reported losses due to such limits. In France, many people go out to smoke, making noise that pisses off the neighbors... that's a negative externality of the law, a cost payed either by the neighbors or by the business owner if he has to deal with the police... you see, there are several implications.Remember: profit = wealth creation. That's because when someone has profit, s/he consumes X and produces Y where Y is more valuable for the society than X. The same way, losses means wealth destruction.Regarding seatbelts, it's true that it's quite cheap to have them on the taxis, but maybe if taxists don't do it, it's because most of their customers prefer to pay a bit less than to have safety. I don't know how is Iran economy situation, maybe they're missing a bit more capitalism so they can produce things cheaper. Don't the sanctions they suffer make cars particular expensive for the population?If you have free-markets for a while, society gets so rich that you can have stronger and more specialized competition. You'd eventually have the possibility to satisfy the most strict "tastes". Smoke-free environments would eventually come up, and safer taxis would probably come faster I guess.Now, about traffic laws, that's lack of property rights. Every road and street should have owners, which should be free to set the traffic laws on their property. This way things would converge for an optimal solution for the culture/region in question. By the way, you say lack of rules causes more accidents, but that's questionable... in Holland they've done some interesting experiments showing quite the opposite: http://www.examiner.com/civil-liberties-in-national/at-least-with-traffic-fewer-rules-make-for-better-behaviorThis is a non-issue. People self-interest will make them look for immunization. Private health insurances could require them as well. People wouldn't do it only when the immunization benefits don't outcome the costs (say, a very expensive vaccine for a disease not that dangerous..) But nobody says the use of force should be forbidden. Only the initiation of force against innocents should be.  Missing only the pound and the swiss franc then. Congratulations btcex, it's a nice improvement. The more currencies exchanging directly with bitcoins, the better. Do you plan to translate your site to Japanese as well? That might be a good thing for you now... But there you're complaining about a different problem, the currency monopoly. Every libertarian agree with you on this point, there shouldn't be such monopoly. There is nothing fraudulent in fractionate reserves. As long as both parts agree in a contract, there is nothing fraudulent in it.I've seen some economists, like Walter Block, trying the weirdest arguments in order to frame fractionate reserves as fraud. It looks like those conservatives distorting concepts in order to frame drug commerce as a violation or property rights, or when leftists try to frame prejudice and discrimination as an aggression in order to condemn them. This is just people twisting concepts in order to frame something they don't like.Is the fractionate reserve system bad? Maybe. It's surely dangerous, at least.Is it fraudulent or criminal? Not at all.Of course, do not confuse a fractionate reserve bank in a free market, where it has to pay for the risks it takes, with the current central banking system, where the risks of such dangerous activity are payed by tax victims and currency holders. I don't, but with the block generation dates you can calculate the number of total existent bitcoins at each moment in time.. then you need to multiply this value by the data you already have on the btc unit prices...So, the only new data you would need to gather is the block generation dates... don't the block themselves have timestamps? Chart suggestion: total value of bitcoin economy measured in any currency versus time.As we are in the most inflationary period, it would be nice to see this chart. Nice.I don't know why keep two different columns for Debit and Credit, if we can have signs. Eliminate one and add a column with the balance after that transaction, it's more useful. This is the Nolan chart you're talking about, isn't it? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nolan_Chart
I agree but not entirely. By the way, where do you pop such numbers from?It is true that if a certain market remains very lucrative for a long time, it is quite suspicious. One may say that there are artificial (coercive) barriers to entry in such market, protecting those who are already in. Banks are a good example. But that's not always the case... there are historical cases of companies capable of maintaining competitive advantages over everyone else for years.Saying that in a "perfect market" profit margins tend to zero is too strong, and not true... if a particular market start to have lower profit margins than others, providers will migrate out of this market to those more profitable, what can stop the decline of the profit margins of this market. The "total average" must be positive as well, it's not a zero-sum game.... profit = wealth creation, and people are always looking for ways of creating more wealth. Free markets are good to everyone, providers and customers...Instead of saying they "tend to zero", you could say they "tend to an equilibrium", which, of course, will never be reached, since society is always changing. Me too. +1 Well, while bitcoins cannot be easily used for exchanging (money), they can be used as a store of value, pretty much like gold and silver are used today. His service makes that much easier, since now you can easily sell your coins for something more much more liquid.I believe that first bitcoins will be used as some sort of "odd investment". If like this they become sufficiently popular and stable to be used as money, then they might go mainstream. Nice article! Shared it! And I agree about the wikipedia page. I wouldn't abandon the small value cards if I were you. Make them proportionally more expensive if that's the case, but leave the option for those who are not very comfortable with putting a lot of money in a prepaid credit card, like people who fear being stolen, or who still don't trust your business well enough... Not Switzerland, but south of France... what about a gathering next summer in Côte d'azur?   It's just me that finds silly this reluctance of the wikimedia foundation against adding some ads?These beg banners they put end up being more annoying than a small add would be, and I don't think it's nearly as effective. Well, I do think that there must be some blocks with enough free space to fit all almost-free transactions once in a while.. the adjustment shouldn't be so that all blocks are filled up.I suppose transfers don't happen homogeneously during the 24h of a day, 7 days of a week. So, if the limit is "just", there will be blocks filled, and there will be blocks with free space where even free transactions could enter if the generator doesn't mind. Regarding free transactions, I don't see why would somebody accept them as long as the client gives users the option to add fees to the transactions. A generator could add free or dummy transactions to his own blocks in the intend to push the limit up, but then, one person only wouldn't be that effective in increasing the limit, as s/he wouldn't be able to generate enough blocks. If periods of adjustment are short, one person only wouldn't even be able to generate one block per period, so in the end s/he would be inoffensive, as the limit would fall back.Only an attacker with strong computing power could push up the limit considerably. And I don't see much incentives in using a strong computing power like this... do you? I see, you think people could push up the limit to be sure that it would be big enough to always fit every transaction in it, therefore collecting more fees. On the long run that would be bad for generators themselves though, as the fee values would fall.I'm not even sure this is interesting to the generator in the short run itself. He wouldn't collect more fees in the "flooded" blocks he generates.. and he doesn't have a real guarantee of being able to do so in the future blocks either. Un site comme mtgox mais en euro serait bienvenu.Et tu n'as pas forcement besoin d'utiliser LR ou Liqpay, ça pourrait être par virement bancaire même, comme BitcoinExchange, qui n'a pas tous les fonctionnalités de MtGox, malheureusement. Maybe it could make routing easier if instead of generating independent keys, you use signed certificates. This way the certificates could follow some sort of hierarchy. Your cert is signed by your ISP cert which is signed by the backbones certs your ISP uses and so on...Then routers would only have to index the certificates of the backbones... the index could get quite smaller. But anyway, routing would become a much heavier process than it is in IP.Interesting idea. I had never heard it before. There's practically no chance that it would ever happen though. The idea of decentralizing IP attribution is really interesting.But you would force routers to perform non-constant operations (index searches) to find the correct route, wouldn't you?Today, I think (really not sure), routers can figure out the route in constant time, just by looking at the IP. Your site won't have a free version at all? You should think about it, like the main download sites... free downloads and premium ones.  Not to mention that, the larger the block, the longer it takes to propagates it to the network, what I suppose can slightly increase the chance that another block generated by somebody else propagates faster. Really tiny chance, but anyway, it's another counter-incentive to flooding... There is no economic incentive in flooding. Actually, you can only do it on the blocks you create, otherwise you have to pay fees for it.So, flooding would be done just by silly people trying to attack the system. They would hardly be sufficiently numerous to make what you say here: That would only happens if flooders are numerous, what I would doubt. Not to mention that, if the block max size is "just", there will always be quite a good number of paying transactions to be added. Maybe there is enough to fill the block with. There is an incentive not to flood if we think this way. @da2c7Why would a generator refuse a transaction with any amount of fee if s/he can still add it to the block?A bank doesn't need to mind with transactions the way you suggest. All transactions in between its clients don't need to be real bitcoin transactions, they can be just updates in the bank database. The bank would only need to send transactions to the chain when transferring from/to an "outsider" address. I didn't read the whole topic but I agree that built-in password encryption of the wallet.dat would be a good thing.The current client is really a "geek thing". It won't go mainstream like that. I think creighto said all that needed to be said about this. Generators can find a way to bypass this issue, if it ever becomes an issue. And, again, with a proper interface to add transaction fees, there would be no incentive for a flood attack. So, blocks would only grow if they really need to grow - if people really are transacting that much.I have to disagree here. You don't easily change a protocol constant. It can only be done when just a few softwares implement the protocol. Once it is well diffused throughout the Internet, it's almost impossible to change.What you are proposing is like a fork on the project, since the chains wouldn't be compatible. Having to fork the project just because the value of a constant became obsolete? It's way too radical. People wouldn't do it, and the bad constant would remain there, causing issues, like too high transaction fees.
Db is right. We should not expect people to generate on a net loss. I don't doubt that there will be people willing to do so. But I think we should aim more than that, otherwise the difficulty factor would be much lower than what it could be.And this is a problem that could be partially solved by an automatic adjustment of the block size limit, as I argue on the other thread. If this rule is defined and documented while we still can, it would become a "protocol-rule". Generators would know it, and know how to adapt to it in order not to lose their blocks. Generators must bear whatever the network demands. If we ever reach a "professional" level of hundreds of transactions per minute, generators will have to bear that.That's why an automatic adjustment would be important. Not to allow "too high" or "too low" limits for a long time.You do realize that if this limit is a constant, it will be really hard to change it when needed, right? Yes, like the difficulty adjustment, there might be periods where it's not that precise. But it'd be much better than a constant value, wouldn't it? No, not really. It's related to the difficulty factor only. Hello all,Recently I just posted on another thread to express my concern about this subject, but I thought it might deserve a topic of its own.This block size rule is something really "dangerous" to the protocol. Rules like that are almost impossible to change once there are many clients implementing the protocol. Take SMTP as an example. Several improvements could be done to it, but how? It's impractical to synchronize the change.And, well, if we ever want to scale, such limit will have to grow. I really think we should address this problem while there is only one client used by everyone, and changes in the protocol are still feasible, because in the future we may not be able to.As far as I understand, one of the purposes of this block size limit was to avoid flooding. Another purpose as well, as mentioned here, is to keep the transaction fees not "too small" in order to create an incentive for block generation once the coin production isn't that interesting anymore. (if only a limited number of transactions can enter a block, those with the smallest fees won't be quickly processed...)So, if we really need a block size limit, and if we also need it to scale, why not making such limit so that it adjusts itself to the transaction rate, as the difficulty of generation adjust itself to the generation rate?Some of the smart guys in this forum could come up with an adjustment formula, taking in consideration the total size of all transactions in the latest X blocks, and calculating which should be the block size limit for the next X blocks. Just like the difficulty factor.This way we avoid this "dangerous" constant in the protocol.One of the things the smart guys would have to decide is how rigorous will the adjustment be. Should the adjustment be done in order to always leave enough room to all transactions in the next block, or should blocks be "tight" enough to make sure that some transactions will have to wait, thus pushing up the transaction fees?Okay, I do realize that it would allow flooders to slowly increase the limit, but, what for? As long as generators aren't accepting 0-fee transactions, a flooder would have to pay to perform his attack.So, what do you think? I think db has a point. If the block reward isn't profitable, that does look like a tragedy of the commons. It's true that if it happens the least efficient miners will give up, what will decrease the difficulty for the most efficient... but a lower difficulty is bad for the network... Only recently I learned about this block size limit.I understand not putting any limit might allow flooding. On the other hand, the smaller your block, the faster it will propagate to network (I suppose.. or is there "I've got a block!" sort of message sent before the entire content of the block?), so miners do have an interest on not producing large blocks.I'm very uncomfortable with this block size limit rule. This is a "protocol-rule" (not a "client-rule"), what makes it almost impossible to change once you have enough different softwares running the protocol. Take SMTP as an example... it's unchangeable.I think we should schedule a large increase in the block size limit right now while the protocol rules are easier to change. Maybe even schedule an infinite series of increases, as we can't really predict how many transactions there will be 50 years from now.Honestly, I'd like to get rid of such rule. I find it dangerous. But I can't think of an easy way to stop flooding without it, though. Nothing. Actually, as far as I understand, a miner has no obligation whatsoever to include any transaction in the blocks he produces.Now, if you want to talk about what's the incentive for a miner to add transactions, well, it's mainly the fees. If a miner stipulates a high fee, people wouldn't pay it, and he would lose the opportunity of grabbing the lower fees that would go for the miner which accepts them.On the other hand, there aren't much incentives to accept "feeless" transactions... today, as the client doesn't give you the option to add a fee to each transaction, custom miners have a strong incentive to accept such feeless transactions because otherwise they would be screwing the whole bitcoin network, what end up being bad for themselves. But as soon as there is a client that allows the user to specify how much to pay on fees, I don't see why accepting feeless transactions.No, there ought not.I am strongly against such thing.What you are suggesting is price fixing. The whole bitcoin idea is to have sound money, government-proof. If that's what we want to create, how come we are going to try to fix prices on the protocol itself? That's contradictory with the sound economic principles behind Bitcoin.You sound like those people who want to prevent merchants from proposing very different prices, otherwise is too "chaotic".Producing a block and storing transactions in it is a service somebody is performing for bitcoin users. It's up to s/he to choose how much to charge.And anyway, think about it, there is a strong incentive for accepting any transaction with any positive transaction fee in it. Otherwise you'll just be letting it to the next guy who is less restrictive than you.This limit is client-based, not protocol-based. I suppose (actually, I hope!) that if a custom miner accepts transactions of less than 0,01 BTC, the default client won't reject those blocks. It's just that the miner that comes with the default client has this policy of charging 0,01 fee for <0,01 transactions.So, this is not a problem at all, and can be changed at any moment by those in charge for the client. I really think it's important that the protocol does not enforce any minimum transaction fee rule. A block should be accepted on the chain regardless of its transaction fees.Trying to come with an arbitrary rule like that is like trying to arbitrarily fix price limits. We cannot predict what is the correct minimum fee.Miners, yes, they should be free to set those rules for the blocks they generate. So, if those in charge of the main client decide to follow a minimum-fee rule for the blocks generate by the main client, so be it. But never reject a block generated by another miner that doesn't follow the same fee rules.And, as I said, if the client just gives the option to the user of configuring minimum transaction fees, I don't see why people would keep accepting transactions with no fees on their blocks. That would be a sort of "charity", but towards people you don't even know.If the custom GPU miners are not charging fees right now it's probably because the main client doesn't easily give you the option of embedding fees to your transactions. Disagree.I don't like "hard" rules like this.Miners should be free to charge how much they want as transaction fee for including your transaction in the blocks they produce. If someone wants to include them freely, fine.By the way, this would be a nice improvement to the default client. The possibility ofSpecifying a minimum transaction fee for the transactions to be included in blocks generated. The minimum value could be absolute, relative to the transaction amount, or relative to the transaction data size as today.A way to voluntarily add transaction fee when doing a payment. Again, the value to add could be absolute, relative etc... Yes, I got it, I just don't see why such a large time interval. Why not daily, for example? It would be much more precise... I'd still put seasteading before in this priority list.   I think it's too early yet. 0,01BTC is still quite an insignificant amount.And there is no need to try to predict the future by setting this change to happen automatically at block X. We can wait for the value to raise before performing such change. It's not like 1BTC will suddenly reach U$10,00 value.By the way, I also think it's better to display with 1mBTC than 0,001BTC. There's another topic talking about this too.The difficulty factor is updated only at each 2016 blocks if I'm not mistaken (why such a high number, anybody knows?). When it's updated, the new difficulty factor is calculated based on the average value that would be necessary to keep the 6 blocks per hour rate.But if the computing power in the network keeps raising, even after the update the new difficulty will be to small to keep that rate, since it was calculated with the average of the last 2016 blocks.And the computing power has been raising a lot with all these GPU miners. If the file is always encrypted I don't see why running on a not-so-secure-system would be a problem...That's why I think the client should handle built-in encryption. The video is well done, the music is fine... but I found the way they pass the message too "leftist" to my taste. It looks like they're criticizing people consuming choices. You can protect your wallet.dat from hacking by encrypting it (using a password-protected key).To be really safe, keep at least 3 copies of the file in different medias. Encrypted copies by the way.To all: I think it's really imperative that the client has built-in encryption and backup features before a 1.0 release could be done... I hope I'm not the only one to think this! (and sorry, but no, I don't know enough C++ to help you...) Impressive how people are so concerned about "backing" money with something... you're missing the point.And by the way, nothing has inherent value.  I know about bitcoinexchange, I've already used their service. I thought the problem was in the US, but according to what you say, there is no problem... Cheer up man, 200BTC is a good bid...If you take 1BTC = 0.3USD that makes 60 dollars. Even if you take 1BTC = 0.25USD, that makes you 50 dollars.According to goldprice.org, the current price for 1g is around 44 dollars.
If bank transfers don't allow chargebacks, what holds people (like MtGox and other exchange sites) from using it?Ok, they are not as international as credit cards or paypal, but they may be an easier option than LibertyReserve for those who live in US, don't they? Both could be kept as means to fund an account... You can see the number of posts per month here http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=statsThe big jump was on July, since then it's been steady it seems. That was my suggestion. Before accepting money from a particular account, try to check whether the person on the other side is the real owner of that account. Asking for some documents like IDs and passports is one way to go.Only allow limited funding at the beginning is also an option.That's weird, because it seems this whole chargeback thing is particular to US and maybe other countries, but in some places credit cards and bank transfers can't chargeback*. So, the insurance costs are already diluted in the service fees, which are high but not "too high" to stop people from using it... *Not 100% sure. But, for example, bitcoinexchange uses bank transfers and it seems so far they haven't had problems with chargebacks. Merchant checks what merchants wants to check.BullionVault for example, once you perform your first transfer from a bank account of yours, they won't allow you to fund your bullionvault account with any other bank account.Why can't the same thing be done for credit cards?Those are criminal sites, I suppose, right? These criminals not only would need to have access to the private data of the credit cards, but also photos of the IDs of these CC owners... not impossible, but difficult.And also, what about an insurance? Why can't it be done? Of course they are.The state not only uses the dollar printers in order to manipulate the interest rates for their demagogic purposes, but they also use it as a financing source, since the debt bounds that expire in the hands of the Fed aren't payed off by the Treasury. They do finance their activities through the printing of money. Another thing such sites could do is require some identification from those willing to open an account. Since CC and bank transfers aren't anonymous anyway, that wouldn't be more of a privacy loss than the means of payment itself already is.So, for example, the site could require those opening an account to provide some photos of their ID cards or passeports. After receiving the first bank transfer/CC payment it would match the ID with the source of payment and then, for security/privacy reasons, it could delete such photos. This would involve manual work, but if the site grows enough, then automatic recognition of some types of ID pictures could be implemented.This wouldn't stop all sort of scams but could strongly limit them. I don't understand it.Okay, so US credit cards and bank transfers allow chargebacks. Got that. But why it seems that we here are the first ones to have issues with that? It can't be. There must be some sort of insurance that people selling through CC and bank transfers could hire in order to protect themselves from chargebacks.A site selling bitcoins for CC would only need to dilute the cost of such insurance in transaction fees or whatever source of income they come up with.Why can't it happen that way? I know it, you don't need to tell me.  Hello all,I believe most of you are familiar with the Seasteading Institute.For those who aren't, it's a project to build inhabitable sea platforms with the intend of funding new countries. You may know more by accessing their site or by watching this nice talk Patri Friedman gave in the first Brazilian Seminar of Austrian Economics, hold by the Brazilian Mises Institute.IMHO, this is the most important project in existence for libertarians. If we could ever fund an independent city, based on libertarians principles, this would be simply amazing. Even if we don't manage to create a truly libertarian place due to other nation governments' threats, I think it's at least possible to create a place with more freedom than anywhere else in the world.I've been trying to convince them to accept bitcoins donations. But I think that better than talking I should try to do something.So I'm organizing a donation here. As soon as they start accepting them, I'll transfer all the funds to their addresses.For those willing to contribute to this amazing project, please flip your coins to 194qHQhV1r48xoLu5vMP4A54ekdvGfcEGWThank you! A condominium is a voluntary contract. It only bounds those who voluntarily accept it.There's nothing voluntary in the state. Well, you know, if you don't find a proper contact, you can always send an ancient letter, made from paper. They have a postal address on this page you linked. Bitcoins could be really useful to them. Good idea.I don't know the answer to your question though, sorry. It is open source.Everyone would see it.I don't think any code would ever be accepted to an official release without some peer verification.How?I think you're talking about the overflow bug. You'll find lots of discussions about it here in the forum.No.The difficulty to generate blocks would raise proportionally.No one, it's P2P open software. Excuse me for my ignorance, but isn't the difficulty there exactly to prevent what the topic author fears?If computers get a billion time faster, difficulty gets a billion time harder... What's the issue? There's a maximum possible difficulty for SHA-256 ? What?Keep thy moral to thyself.There's nothing "immoral" to gambling, if you take any non-subjective moral (ethics). And it's not bad to bitcoins either!What worries me is somebody who thinks he can claim what's legitimate for somebody else to do with his own money and his own money only."Bad aspects" to you! What you call a vice, for others may be amusement. As utility is subjective, what you say ("does not product something useful") makes no sense. If gambling is what Joe wants, that's something useful to him. Stop wanting to impose your personal values on others.     Understand something, really: nothing can be stolen by consent. This is contradictory in terms. Not understanding the difference between lack of consent and presence of it is like saying sex and rape are the same.Speculators are not stealing anything. Speculators are just people who try to predict future prices, aiming for profit. And, as always, profit adds wealth to society. Even the profit of a speculator.A successful speculator is someone that correctly predicts price fluctuations. So, for example, he buys when a certain resource is less scarce, and save it to sell when it's more scarce. The action of the successful speculator helps to flatten price fluctuations, since he buys when the resource is more available (pushes up a downward price) and sells when people are lacking the resource in question (pushing down an upward price).Interesting to note that the inverse also apply to failures. A speculator that fails will make things worse. As anyone that has losses, he'll be destroying wealth.Memorize this: The more successful anyone is in pursuing profit through voluntary means, the more this person will help society. It would be nice to see a BTC/gold chart...  Since I know bitcoin watch, every time I access it the average blocks per hour counter is closer to 10 than 6. In the euro zone you have the chance of buying through bank transfer with bitcoinexchange. But it has the same problem you mention for cash-in-the-mail, you're not sure what will be the price when your transfer reach their account.I've suggested them (and bitcoin*cash could do the same) to add a price prediction feature, trying to estimate what the price will be if your transfer/mail arrive just after all other orders already done and which weren't received yet. It's a prediction that may not be verified, but at least it's better than nothing.The main problem with dollars, as already said, is that conventional internet payments (CC, paypal) have charge-backs, while bitcoins don't. I wonder why there aren't insurances for that yet. The clients will replace their chain by the longer. And if there is no hardcoded snapshot, the entire chain could be replaced.We definitely have a different understanding of requirements here, then. There's no way I can see the possibility of losing all past transactions as a "feature" for a monetary system. Imagine... All your money could get lost, and not only yours, everybody's money! That's a vulnerability, for sure. The fact that an absurdly enormous processing power is required for such attack is already a pretty good protection against it, but why not adding extra protection like hardcoded snapshots of the chain? It's like someone said, if done for old blocks, that's not a problem at all. It should not be done on recent blocks, of course. You say that the (minuscule) possibility of all transactions done since the very beginning of bitcoins being completely lost is a feature? Dude, that would be a catastrophe! It better never happen!It seems you don't get why there is this "larger chain wins" rule. As far as I know at least, this rule only exists to solve "chain splits" as quick as possible.Suppose node A produces a new block practically at the same time node B does the same. Some nodes receive block A, others receive block B. We have now two different chains, A and B. That's bad, we should have just one. So, to solve it, we assume that the first chain to get bigger first will replace the other. So if sub-network A produces a block before sub-network B, all nodes in B will ignore their chain and accept the larger one from A.That's the only reason I see this rule to exist. Somebody correct me if I'm wrong, but as far as I understand, this rule was not create to explicitly allow someone with super-computer-power to rewrite the entire block chain.
It does prevent someone with super-duper-computer-power to replace the entire chain with a new one... why not do it?And I suppose they had a good reason to do so... in the particular case, there was an invalid chain with an invalid transaction that needed to be ignored, even if it was bigger than the correct chain. In Brazil, student houses are called "republics". haha, and you were complaining about the reception given to the bot-like man of the other topic!Yoda automatic translator he used, see can't you?@Remizor,Sorry for the jokes, but it's a bit hard to understand what you say. This forum is quite international, maybe you can find someone that speaks your native language and get some help. Makes sense.Can you guess where does all the demand comes from? It's not as if bitcoin was that useful already, concerning the transactions that can be made with.PS: Comédia o "me dá um dinheiro aí"   I ask myself the same question.It can't be only the libertarian geeks of this forum... or maybe the hoarding is so strong that it pushes the prices very high? Welcome!I use this forum RSS: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?type=rss;action=.xml[]'sTiago. You've raised an interesting point here. It's as if paypal insecurity was dropping its value. In the end, using a secure system (or an insurance) might cost the same. Regarding the attack discussion, I don't know how the client behaves, but it has no reason to keep in the pool transactions that it wouldn't add to any block anyway. Actually, ByteCoin has just pointed a reason for not doing so.  The unacceptable transactions should be forwarded and forgotten. It's up to the stingy sender to retry if the transaction is completely forgotten by the network.Those doing "charity work" (adding transactions with no fees) would be vulnerable to this sort of denial of service attack, yes. And if they ever generate a block - before running out of memory/disk space -, it will be a damn huge block! But I see no "lucrative incentive" for such an attack, though. If you want to forbid free transactions, just publish a free version of the client that allows its users to specify minimum transactions fees. Why?That would happen as soon as there is a client that allows the user not to add transactions with no fees to the block it generates. The only reason why you can make free transactions so far is because the only client that exists doesn't allow the user to specify transaction fee rules.If people generating could specify their own rules regarding fees, they wouldn't accept transactions with no fees (ok, there are always the exceptions, but they would be few...)So, in the future, we may expect that all transactions will have to pay fees anyway. I suppose - correct me if I'm wrong - that most scams were made with stolen CC or PP accounts... using your own identity while performing a scam like this looks risky.And for the case of stolen accounts, the thief has to act fast, s/he can't waste time with small transactions. I speak it too. If you need help PM me. Yes, I did!  Sorry for that! Talking about Nobel prizes: http://www.spiked-online.com/index.php/site/article/9776/ Madhatter,Do you realize that, if your mailman ever finds about your business, you're screwed? I mean, you're clients will be... :-PCross your fingers for it to never happen! (or consider accepting named bank checks, but then your anonymity is gone...) Mr "torservers",Since you're into providing means for anonymous communications, what do you think about providing Anomos trackers?If you don't know about the Anomos project: http://anomos.info/I know many people use bittorrent over Tor, and that's not good for the network. The anomos project is a good alternative to the problem, if at least it had trackers! You may say that if a mathematician believes in gods that doesn't make him incompetent in Math, but if a so called "economist" believes in one of the oldest fallacies concerning economics, that's a different scenario, don't you think?Err... lots of people coming back, with no jobs or money, wounded and all... shouldn't that make everything even worse?And by the way, the cause of the 1920 crisis was exactly the monetary expansion done by the Fed during WW1.What? Wow ... wait... so... buying more machines, training more people, that slows economic growth??I don't know what you think capital means, but capital = means of production. Machinery, plants, tools, even immaterial things like knowledge, all these are capital. The more you have it, the more productive you are. Economic growth = increase in productivity.Accumulating capital is the only way to sound economic growth. There's no "monetary magic" that, just by the printing of some paper, will create real capital from thin air and make a society richer. It seems you believe in this keynesian illusion.I highlighted an important word from your paragraph.You're talking about Norway, right? The funds of the Norway state are real savings. The Norwegian society produces more than it consumes, the state confiscates it but, instead of doing like most states in the world and burning it immediately, it saves. That's exactly what I've said before, when I stated that savings is in the beginning of the economic growth chain.First, you have savings. The more savings available, the easier it is to invest them in the creation of new capital. More capital, more production. More production, more consuming becomes possible and voilà, you have, at the end of the process, a raise in consumption. It was only possible due to the savings in the beginning, otherwise, if everybody consumes exactly what they produce, where will the new capital come from?Memorize it:Savings -> Investments -> Capital accumulation -> Increase productivity -> Increase in consumption.So, when the Norwegian state forces its citizens to save or consume, it is provoking artificial changes in temporal preferences, but, at least, it's not completely illusionary - the savings were real.But when a state prints money in order to artificially push down the interest rates, all he's doing is manipulating prices. No real savings are created. In this fake prices scenario, people will consume and invest more (since the interest rate is artificially low), and will not be interested in savings... the real savings will eventually dry out, and many long term investments that were started will have to be abandoned because there's not enough resources to complete it.That's what will happen to the word economy in the near future. And will be strong!Ah, and regarding spending increasing the GDP... of course, GDP is a measure of spending! That's what it measures, it doesn't measure savings!As already noted by someone, Japan suffers from intense government interference. The "too big to fail" idea has made the government drain all the resources of its people to sustain big, wealth destroyer companies.Well, I was thinking about electronic consume goods, not electronic capital. You claim that under deflation people don't ever spend. So why do people buy HD TVs? Why not wait forever until they get cheaper/better?And you noted an important thing also: increase in productivity. Just a frozen monetary base won't cause price deflation. Frozen monetary base + economic growth = price deflation. And if the economy is growing, that means new capital is available. As you noted by yourself, these more productive capital compensates the deflation.You don't save capital (if it's "saved", it's not being used as capital at least), you save resources.And resources saved can be invested to create new capital. With new capital, then, Profit! You're confusing capital with resources. Of course capital increases productivity. And first you invest, then you have capital. Tons of gold in your basement is savings, not capital.Here it's clear you're influenced by keynesianism...So, people go and spend more. And then, magically, from nowhere, productivity increases! Machines fall from the sky, people wake up more skilled, electronic chips spontaneously mutate into faster circuits, just because you distributed money to the spending-poor!Sorry for the irony, but, seriously now, how do you think productivity increases? Aren't you missing some important steps in this reasoning?(And sorry all for the huge post...) haha, forgot that "detail"... der! Can't you send coins while the chain is downloading?Won't you see received transactions with 0 confirmations until the corresponding block is downloaded?I thought the only problem was the generation, which is not that serious as a problem since the chance of generating something in a couple hours is really tiny.But anyway, your ideas are good. The faster the better.  I had read about this proposition to Nauru and all. It's interesting, but... even if works out, you'll remain subject to the laws of the state you live in...Besides role-playing, the main reason I'd see for trying to fund a new nation is to live under new laws...
Yesterday I read a little about Wirtland, and I'm sorry, but I still don't get it... I didn't read too much so maybe I'm missing something, but, if you people can't be free from the state laws of the place you live in - and, as far as I understood, the wirtland project doesn't intend to do so like the seasteading project for example -, so, what's the point in it? That would be much cheaper than paypal by the way.... I already use RSS to read this forum.It would be nice if there were one RSS flow per language though. You can't know when. It's normal that you don't see any, current difficulty is really high.This site calculates some probabilities: http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.phpYes, it should work.No, you risk losing money in the process, due to the change process.The best is to back up always after any of these events:Sending any amountCreating an address for receivingGenerating something (not really sure about this one though)I've seen some messages on the forum that a pool of addresses is under development. After it's implemented, you won't need to back up so frequently.It's not a progress. Each hash you generate is a random attempt, each of them has the same chance of breaking the last hash.Think of it as a lottery, each hash being a ticket.  I used it recently and it worked fine. http://www.bitcoin.org/trade Mr Gox, isn't there any sort of insurance you could hire - and indirectly charge on users, of course - to cover for the chargebacks?I suppose that if there is such a thing, they would even help you to increase the security of your site against scams.... If you want to invent a "free micronation", don't define an official, mandatory currency. The more free people are to adopt new currencies the best.That said, I think bitcoin is the best possible currency available today, to my knowledge. And the idea of a "Wirtcoin" label over it is nice. Yeah, like that one who believes in the broken window fallacy: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QG4jhlPLVVsThe Nobel prize has already lost any respect it might had long before giving the peace prize to the guy who just raised the budget of the strongest armed forces on earth.What prolonged the depression was all government interventions and attempts to recover the economy.You want to see how can a strong crisis be quickly "solved"? Just read about the 1920 crisis: http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/mar/18/a-tale-of-two-great-depressions/And that's why the world will suffer a major economic crisis in less than one generation time.There is nothing bad about deflation. It rewards savers (and savings is good since it makes capital accumulation easier) and also make it easier for the poorer to consume stuff that otherwise they wouldn't manage to.First: savers should be rewarded. They make everybody else's life better.Second: for such a strong price deflation to occur, not only a frozen monetary base is needed, but a strong increase in productivity is necessary as well. Your scenario is self-contradictory. If prices going down causes such bad consequences, how could the prices keep going down in the first place? Productivity would drop and the price of goods would raise since they would become more scarce.The thing is that prices going down do not cause economic problems. On the contrary, they represent a previous increase in productivity. Prices going down are the result of economic growth.By the way, the technology industry is a living example of that. Their productivity increases even faster than the central bank printers work. Electronic goods' prices are always falling, and that's not negative at all. That doesn't stop people from wanting to consume them by the way (assuming people would just keep money in their pockets and never use it's quite silly, come on... money is not and end in itself).If that happens it means your baker triplicated his productivity in one-day time. Give him a medal or something.No, no! That's the source of all your mistakes! It's not money flow that allows the economy to grow, it's not consumption that increases productivity.Memorize it: It's not consumption that allow economic growth. It's saving.Repeat it to yourself several times....  Seriously, a raise in consumption is the end consequence of economic growth, not its cause.First, somebody has to save. Then, this savings can finance capital accumulation. More capital, more productivity. More productivity, more goods and services. More goods and services, more consumption is possible.Consumption is in the end of the chain. Savings is on the beginning.It already has been disproved since the 20s. Yeah, but let's not forget that by making profit they might attract the attention of the government/IRS, which can hit much stronger than any scammer. I bet that nobody wants that less than MtGox owners themselves... relax, they'll do whatever they need/can. Offshore where, exactly? (seriously, is there a state whose laws wouldn't attack bitcoin exchange services?) As well as honest traders!I don't know why you are asking for them to make their service worse to all of us.If they really need more money to survive, they will demand it. While they are doing it for free, we should all be thankful.Donate them if you will - as I think I'll do - but don't ask them to charge fees! Come on!   Perhaps we should try to contact wikileaks directly... I'd say only the DNS-like system seems interesting. The addresses are already kind of short, they don't pollute a text like huge URLs... Isn't there any sort of insurance to cover these "chargebacks"?Couldn't mtgox demand them for new users of insecure form of payments?By the way, I thought that credit card payments already had such insurances "embedded"... I think in Brazil they have, at least I think I heard so... now I'm not sure. A condominium. Like, when you own an apartment, you partially own the common parts of the buildings. When you own a house on a private condo, you partially own the streets and common area etc.The local networks (streets, plumbing, electric cables etc) could be owned by the condominiums, which would then contract "backbone" providers.It's not like a government because it's voluntary, contractual. (okay, to switch from the current system to such a system it would be hard to make it 100% voluntary, but it would be at least much closer to a voluntary institution than when the state controls everything). The problem is that, if you don't understand the basics of cryptography, and if you don't know exactly what is P2P or open source, you'll be reluctant. That seemed to be the problem in this talkgold forum.And if besides that you don't even understand the economic problem in fiat currencies, you just won't see why the hell should you care about bitcoins.  There is no such a thing as "natural monopoly".All "network services" can be provided freely. You can, for example, create "neighborhood institutions" (don't know the best English word for it) which would own the local networks, and then contract the "backbone" from a free provider.By network services I mean all these services that are normally called natural monopoly, such as transport network, water, electricity, telephony, sewer and so on.  By the way...It wouldn't protect against someone that has access to your computer, if all the virtual machines are there. It would make it harder only... but the best would be saving multiple copies on offline medias, I guess.
Splitting and merging wallets is another thing that would be nice to have as feature on the client.But anyway, you can do it with a little work.I think these steps would help:Make a backup of your wallet.dat somewhere safe.Stop bitcoin (if running) and remove the wallet.dat from the default directory (your user home)Start the program, it should create a new wallet.dat file on your home, empty.Create a new address with your new file. Follow first 2 steps again, for this new file.Put your old wallet.dat file, with all your money, back into your user home.Send the amount you want to the address you created on step 4.Voilà, you now have two wallet.dat files with different amounts on them. In what way these alternatives you present here are better than paypal? You can't even check that you received a transaction. Actually, I suppose that without the wallet.dat file you can't even run the program, so you can't generate either... (I suppose it would create a new wallet.dat, but then there is no easy way to merge the files, you would have to run the program with one, get an address, restart the program with the other, transfer... )It would be really nice if the client could manage private key password encryption on its own. It could encrypt all address but "remember" the address the wallet has (not the private keys), in order to check reception. It could also continue to receive blocks and generate, since this doesn't depend on the previous private keys. As far as I understand, there is no "waste" of addresses. Anyone can by chance generate one of the addresses that he discarded during the process.If in the process he was saving each attempt, then there would be two owners of a same address.The chance of this happening is so remote, that there is no reason to worry. (I guess) Have you tried showing him that they are already worth around 0,06USD each ?Actually, try to explain what value is... gold itself has no "guarantee"... nobody can really guarantee people will keep valuing gold. What kind of harm one could do by breaking cryptography in a super-speed like the scenario suggested?AFAIK, the block building is a process of cryptography breaking itself. So, if the "enemy" could gather more processing power than the entire honest network, s/he could generate his own block chain where s/he could undo some past transactions and cause other troubles. But, even for the government, it sounds too much of computing power.Another thing they could do is try to break the private key of someone. That would be an attempt of stealing... it doesn't sound profitable since people rarely would have too much money under one same private key, and if it takes months to break it, the money will probably change keys before that.Besides running a parallel block chain or stealing someone's money, what else could be done with a super-key-breaking-computer? @bitcoin2cash:Just find a way to use the private key of this address of yours to sign something and post it on your site. This would at least prove you own 50kBTC.Regards It should be easy to prove he has the 50k if he could sign something using the private keys that hold these 50k, shouldn't it?Of course that doesn't prove he'll sell them at the price announced, but at least prove he has them, or at most, proves that somebody who has them is his friend.   The worst is that this reaction of these dumb-ass third world* central bankers isn't really Keynesian.The reason they want to devaluate their currencies is because they want to boost exports. You know, it's always better to sell than to buy, right hein? Impressive. It's pure "mercantilism", centuries after it has been proved a wrong economic thought.And then, of course, the means through which they will promote this devaluation is through Keynesian ideas, what will make things even worse than plain simple inflation. Following a bad idea through horrible means.+1* Before the politically correct police jumps on me, let me just say I'm a "third world" citizen. At a first glance the idea sounds interesting, but you're suggesting to create an unofficial stock market. Being unofficial, no enforcement of any kind would be available. You can't enforce companies to publish real data, or even to pay owed dividends. You can't enforce decision power to be given to someone that buys enough stocks either...Just a remark, not saying it couldn't work. But you can treat your CD, with whatever it has in it, as your property. The same thing for your hard drive and the bitcoin keys in it. They are your property, and if I use them without your consent, I'm violating your rights.But as long as you allow a friend to copy the content of your CD to his property, without imposing any sort of contract, then the copy this person has belongs to him only. Celine Dion can't accuse this friend of yours of violating her rights. Maybe she could accuse you, if you had signed a particular contract to obtain such CD that prevented you from doing that. But your friend has nothing to do with it. No, it's not just about downloading music and movies...This whole IP industry is "lost".I've worked in companies that pay you just for creating them patents. Whether these patents will be used or not, it's not important. Many are just kept as "protection" or to attack competitors that decide to implement it. Many small companies specialize in create ridiculous patents and use them against companies that have been doing that for a while. And due to different regional laws, many of this "patent trolls" succeed.In the end, a legal resource meant to protect and stimulate innovation is actually preventing it from happening.I doubt that in a society of voluntary law such a thing could happen.  But then what would be the point of my e-mail ? It is not really correct to say that.First, there is no inherent value in anything (I explained that in another thread). The value of everything is subjective, it is not a characteristic of stuff... it's an opinion people have of stuff. But anyway, I understood what you meant.And also, the labor/energy spent on the production of something does not determine the price of this something. That's by the way the labor-value theory used by Marx to justify his theory, which, obviously, is wrong. Something may be worth less than what was spent to produce it (that's why many business have losses!). Actually, I think that the current value of bitcoins is below what we spend in energy to generate them, but I never tried to calculate it.Ok, point taken, without computers/internet, no bitcoins. But if these things cease existing, bitcoins will be the least of our problems!  (unless you meant like people who do not have access to these things... that is not a problem... I think that if bitcoins ever get enough popular, there will be physical means to exchange little amounts easily... ) Nice that you tried. Once I have some time I'll do the same. Maybe multiple people writing them might convince them to at least read something about it.I tried with Brazilian Mises Institute as well, and they also rejected so far, apparently because it's money "backed by nothing", as said above. I'm waiting a little before trying to explain them the difference between bitcoins and fiat currencies, but I'll try. Exactly like gold and silver.  We need to make they understand that... Well, they've been trying something similar against piracy, labeling people "thief" and all... so far the results haven't been that effective  But it is better than gold.  I am not saying that it is a better investment option right now, just that it is a better currency.Any commodity is a potential currency. What made gold and silver excellent currencies are some inner features of such precious metals, that are not only shared by bitcoins, but improved.If you have patience with automatic translations, I tried to explain it here: http://tinyurl.com/38llgfq To help it grow we should try not only the geek community as mentioned above, but the libertarian community as well. If we make a good number of libertarians realize that bitcoins are even better than gold as currency, they will support it.If anyone here has any sort of contact with any libertarian think tank, please, talk to them about bitcoins!Regarding avoiding governments to shut it down... well... if it ever gets sufficiently widespread to threat their monetary policies, you may be sure they will try to shut it down.But... how do you shut down a P2P system?   They are probably wasting money if doing so.... I think that the electricity costs of generation highly exceed what you can get for it.But, well, let's not complain... they are helping the network by donating processing power to the block building process, as well as allowing us to buy cheaper bitcoins  
You make a good point there.That's not easy, as we can see by this topic.Maybe we should start with libertarian communities.I wrote a text for a Brazilian libertarian site, talking about bitcoins. Here's the automatic translation of it: http://tinyurl.com/38llgfqI could make a "human translation" if the some English (or French) libertarian site wants to publish it.It would be really nice if we could get a libertarian institute like the Mises or Catto Institute to write something about bitcoins, or even better, to accept them on their online shops. If an institute of this importance start accepting bitcoins, other libertarian institutes might do as well.Once several renamed institute are accepting btcs, maybe it would be easier to convince "geek" sites like ThinkGeek to accept them. And once many geek and libertarian sites are doing it, it gets easier to convince general purposes sites to do so, since bitcoins do have short term advantages like low transaction fees and anonymous transfers... Forget about generating, you'd better buy them. Generate them if you want to help the system by increasing the difficulty factor.That's controversial. Banks will use your money what pushes the inflation rate. Your money then loses value, not to mention the economic cycles that such practice creates... USA and Europe are living the consequences of such system right now, many other countries were economically destroyed by it.Bitcoin inflation rate is hardcoded in the algorithm, and in a couple years it will slow down considerably. In the mid term, it will be slower than any fiat currency in this world. Bitcoin emission is not controlled by any authority. That's the biggest point you're probably missing.Regarding your safety concern, there are already services that backup your bitcoins online. And, well, you can do it yourself, it's not that hard. It's much harder and more dangerous to protect physical money on your own.The possibility to be anonymous as well as the low transaction fees are interesting, particularly the latter.Also, the low inflation rate will be particularly interesting for those who keep bitcoin reserves. When I click on your tinyurl link I end up on www.amazon.com.Is this normal?Maybe your offer is only valid for those in US? That will probably happen spontaneously if someone make a client (or add the option to the current one) that allows the user to charge transaction fees for the blocks it generates. Could you fix an interest rate in chickens as well? I lend you 10 chickens today, you give me 11 chickens (or their equivalent in dollars) next year.Is such contract legal? I remember having read something on this forum saying that transfers to self are signed differently, what would allow to identify them.But I don't know if it's true. Oh yes, and I forgot, currently the client demands transaction fees for big blocks. So, if you try this, you'll have to pay for it. I suppose that as soon as transactions fees start to be demanded, that might become "expensive" to do.And I think the only reason such fees aren't charged right now, it's because the only client that exists doesn't give the user the option to demand them.So, if bitcoins ever get popular, I believe all transactions would have to pay a fee. Maybe tiny, but something.Maybe to merge/split your money among different addresses.Or another more practical example, suppose your laptop is stolen, and your wallet.dat is in it. If you have a backup, you'd better use it soon to transfer everything to a new address of your own, which is not on the stolen wallet.dat, before the thief does it. I didn't read all answers, so sorry if I'm being repetitive, but...I tend to argue no. I find bitcoins better than gold, even if gold could be made "digital". That's because one day bitcoin inflation rate will be lower than gold.I read somewhere that gold inflation rate is around 2% a year. I don't know when bitcoin inflation will decrease to such rate, but one day it will.Something better than bitcoins, however, could come out, yes. Then people would slowly migrate, I suppose. Great work, misery! Oh, come on, no need to cover all possible distros. Just debian and rpm repositories should be fine.  That's what I meant by "automatic update"... normally they always ask user confirmation.They just spare you the work of going to the webiste of each software you have installed to check for new downloads. Wouldn't an automatic update be better?For linux distros at least, it should not be that hard to do it I suppose. But hugolp, currently bitcoins are at a very fast monetary inflation rate, maybe even faster than the dollar.And trebonics, you're talking about price variation, sometimes called price inflation/deflation too. That's the measurement of a price index through a currency.I think the person you quoted was talking about monetary inflation, which is actual money creation. I hadn't noticed it was old news.Wow, that means there has been a great increase in the price of bitcoins then.Thanks! Amazing news!This should indeed be added to the Trade Section, with a explanatory comment if necessary.Forgive my ignorance, but what is $8 Mills ? Which cryptocurrencies of the past? +1I didn't manage to follow this whole discussion, but since the beginning, actually from the wikipage itself, it's possible to see that this whole idea of universal dividend is just a form of income distribution. Income distribution is a kind of subsidy, it's subsidizing the poor. Like all all subsidies, the more you subsidize something, the more of this something you get. The more you subsidize "poverty", i.e., the lack of means to produce enough to have a decent life, the more you end up with people that lack such means and depend on this subsidy.Anyway, if done voluntarily, I have nothing against it. I'm just practically sure it wouldn't work, for the reason others described.If done trough the force of the state, then, of course, it's unethical and worse than a free monetary system. Sure, it would be much better than the current monetary system we live in, since there would be only "simple inflation" at a controlled rate and not inflation to manipulate the interest rates. But even a forced gold standard would be less bad, I guess, than a forced income distribution through inflation. I don't see how can the receipt verify whether it is a double-spent or not.If the same coins were spent in another encrypted transaction, to another address, none of these different receipts would be able to know that another one has also received it.Maybe I didn't understand very well your idea... No, value is not inherent. Value is attributed to things by people, subjectively.Having a value is not an attribute of stuff. It's the "opinion" of people about stuff. And it may changes as people change their "opinion".Read what I wrote right after: No they don't, as anything else doesn't. It's people who value them. Have you read the text I indicated? Had you done it you wouldn't be asking such questions.Don't say bullshit. Self-ownership was never respected in Latin America. There is no such a thing as a "collective" capable of taking decisions. Only individuals and, by extension, institutions can make decisions. The "collective" can't make a decision.If you can't make decisions, you can't own anything.There is no such a thing as "public property". There is only "state property". And if you assume that the group of people that is in the state is the owner of everything within a certain imaginary line called "country", you are not respecting the basic idea of every individual having the same set of universal rights.Just read the text I linked, it explains better than I can.Taxes are theft. I've already wrote about "collective goods".You seem to really believe in the dictatorship of the majority. That's not only unethical as any other dictatorship, as it has some horrible incentives in it you probably don't see.Every law that does extreme good for a little bunch of people and that harms just a little a wide, big and disperse group of people will always be approved, even if the net balance is way negative. No wonder why the current monetary system is so awful, no wonder all these financial laws etcAgain, collectivity isn't going to decide anything. Governments, they might. (but I don't think they'll manage to stop bitcoins that easily ;-))Regards
No, there must not exist universal positive rights since they violate the principle of self-ownership. And the only way to ignore the principle of self-ownership without creating an ethical code completely incoherent to the human nature is to establish a society where some own others. That's normally considered unethical by definition. Try reading this: http://www.lewrockwell.com/hoppe/hoppe11.htmlAnd this (positive natural rights) is completely contradictory to the meaning of economic exchanges. An economic exchange is something done voluntarily. If you force me to do something, that's definitely not an economic exchange. (once a philosopher defined it as "political exchange"  I don't remember his name)  Only if it's voluntary. Otherwise it's probably theft if not worse.Society itself. That's the value of stuff. What people are willing to give for it. For it to happen, all exchanges must be voluntary. Galuel,I read the wikipedia article. (I jumped the math part).Not only there are some wrong economic ideas, but mainly, the ethical principals it bases on are very wrong.You start from the idea that there is such a thing as an universal positive right. This is a denial of human self-ownership. Positive rights are only fair if acquired by voluntary contracts. A universal positive right means someone should be forced to give you something simply for the reason that you exist. This is servitude, partial slavery. It's unethical.About "rémunérer tout le travail non marchand", this is an ethical absurd that derives from the false premise of universal positive rights. If somebody decided to perform a work that absolutely nobody is willing to pay for, s/he should not earn anything for it. Will to pay for something means you are willing to exchange part of your work for this something. If you do something nobody is willing to exchange their work for, they should under no conditions be forced to. That's a form of slavery, and from the economical point of view, it's clearly a waste of resources. It's a form of subsidy, and like all subsidies, it destroys wealth.And by the way, the examples of "travail non marchant" given on the page are bad ones. Most of, if not all those activities can be remunerated voluntarily. Some will not be remunerated as well as highly demanded jobs, but this is perfectly reasonable and fair. You should be remunerated proportionally to what you give to society.Sorry if I sounded rude, but it seems that you understand well some stuff, like the fact that the current monetary system is crap and causes economic cycles, but by starting from wrong ethical principals you may derive some dangerous absurds.Anyway, the only fair/ethical monetary system - which, as usual, happens to be the best economic solution - is a free one, where everybody is free to choose whatever they want to use as exchange means. If you agree with that, it's fine, people that agree to use this constantly inflationary currency would agree in given part of their savings to others. I see no problem in that.But if you wish to force that through state law, and that was the impression I got from the wikipedia page, then, well, we have a really strong disagreement there.Regards These solutions of one transferring money to oneself... ok, currently most transactions are not taxed, but one day they might be, right?Relying on a solution for anonymity that requires money to be spent worries me a bit.... (not that I have a better solution, though   ) Sorry, but I think it's not quite that...You could, in theory, have fractional reserves of bitcoins, as with dollars. Banks don't create dollars (FDR notes) out of thin air, they create bank account balance out of thin air, and that's is counted as actual dollars in the economy.Suppose some bank stores bitcoins. People would transfer their bitcoins to the bank and would have an account balance, that they could retrieve when needed. The bank could then lend part of this money without blocking your balance, thus creating fractional reserves.Of course that, as I said before, there is not much interest in this, because you don't really need to pay for somebody else just to store your bitcoins. You can do it yourself, easily and safe.So, although in theory it would be possible, in practice it might never happen.Nothing has inherent value.  Value is subjective, people give value to stuff, it's not part of stuff.That's why you can not claim that someone that built an ugly building beside your house damaged your property by reducing its value, for example. The value of your house is not an inherent attribute of it. It's not nonsense.Item 2 is definitely the most important.Fractional reserves are not that horrifying when alone, it's true.But Bitcoins may also bring an end to fractional reserves since nobody would need to pay somebody else to protect/keep their money.It's only the union of "vault" services with "landing" services that allowed banks to create such fractional reserves.And monetary inflation is whatever that adds new money. Gold mining is monetary inflation if people use gold as money. From your own link:"The term also describes financial products, such as currency or stock and bond indexes." It doesn't look that impossible to me.This definition of yours by the way doesn't even make much sense, since the utility of something is entirely subjective.How can you make such a statement? How can you know which is the utility of bitcoins for other people? This is subjective.And, anyway, it isn't the definition of commodity either. But the dollar is a commodity.And, by the way, what backs gold? My first draft is attached, but it surely has issues (masculine/feminine, plural/singular, the placing of the & etc). Is there a way I could test the program with this translation in order to correct stuff? I'm translating the po file to Brazilian Portuguese. So bitcoins are even harder money than gold is. They verify all conditions, and even better than gold. It's harder to fake, will become impossible to produce after reaching the 21 million limit, and it's more divisible. This is indeed a good solution. Solves more than one problem actually. I think so.Actually, that's the very idea of a free currency market. If for some reason another system beats bitcoins, well, that's competition! That's not "bad consequences".The only important thing to mind is avoiding non-bitcoins to be mistaken by "true bitcoins". This is important. And I think this is very well protected by the algorithm itself. +1This shocked me actually. The poor guy didn't do anything stupid.Automatic backups are really important after knowing that. And while that cannot be implemented, I think a sort of information message explained this in short words should be displayed every time someone sends coins. A popup saying something like, if I have T coins and I send S coins:"S coins where sent to address X.(T-S) coins where sent to address Y, which belongs to you, in order to improve privacy. Please, realize that old backups you might have of your wallet will now be useless. You should make a new one."This simple message would have avoided this awful lost. (of course, you may also add a "Don't display this again" check box)Regards What's the definition of "hard money" ?It's not "physical", otherwise printed dollars would be called so.Bitcoins are a commodity, and can be compared to gold. Actually, it's even better, since one day the monetary base will freeze. Gold natural reserves won't run out so soon. RSS by language would also be nice! I wouldn't try to explain how cryptography works. Hello,Isn't there an easy way to split or merge different wallets?I know I could transfer to myself, but that's laborious, and, well, there are the transaction fees somebody just pointed me in another topic.Merging might be useful for someone that intends to use more than one computer to mint for bitcoins.Splitting could be useful in order to protect your bitcoins. If you keep all of them in the same wallet and an attacker has access to it, he gets all your money! If you had split it and backed up your coins in different medias that are not connected to the internet, that reduces the risk.Talking about protection, is built-in password protection for your wallet planned to be developed for the default client? It could be helpful too.Thank you. Interesting, I hadn't yet read about this transaction fee.Thank you for the quick reply!So, according to the wiki page, this transaction fee is already in practice! I should not transfer money to myself in order to merge wallets then...I'll open a topic on that matter. Hello,I'm also a newbie to bitcoin. I got to know it only two days ago.As a libertarian software engineer, I loved the idea!Concerning the minting of new coins, can anyone confirm if I got it right?Everyone generating coins is trying to guess which is the next hash for the next block, basically, a p2p brute force effort.The lucky one that finds the next block, gets the coin prize for it.The block prize is currently 50 coins, and it will decrease by half at each 210.000 block intervalThe more blocks there are, the safer the system is against fraud in what concerns double spendingThere is an arbitrary limit of 21 million coins (it looks small for a monetary base... most currencies' M1 are around hundreds of billions, aren't them? If bitcoin succeeds, most mundane prices would be just fractions of a bitcoin )There is no limit to the number of blocksIs everything right?If that's so, I wonder what would be the incentive for someone to keep producing blocks once the limit of 21 million code is reached. Wouldn't the number of block risk to stagnate? Wouldn't that represent a threat?Thank you.My sincere congratulations for those who started this system. Really nice work! (just to say I helped a tiny bit, I translated the getting_started wiki page to Brazilian Portuguese...  if you have an internationalization file for the FAQ, send it to me, when I have some time I might translate it)
