Offer still open for custom bookmarks. Also see my Etsy shop if you prefer non-digital money for this sort of thing:http://www.etsy.com/shop/Telyni I wonder what the ratio is of sold auctions to unsold. Nothing I've put up has gotten any interest yet. Apparently the full-size picture I uploaded shows really blurry on the auction page, although the smaller thumbnail appears just fine. See attached for the actual picture from my computer. Seems odd that a tiny 30 KB picture would need to be shown so blurry. I will fiddle with the settings to try to show the thumbnail instead of the actual picture, since the full picture can be seen when the picture in the gallery is clicked on. Second try! New auction is uploaded to bidding pond here:http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=39&mode=1Picture of example bookmark is included, and international shipping is enabled. Please take a look! Thanks. I'll get a picture up soon, hopefully tonight. (I don't know if I can edit the auction now that it's posted, but I'll post it here at least.)Actually, I missed the option to allow international shipping. It's certainly small enough that it shouldn't be a problem.Thanks for your interest! Hey, thanks for showing interest at least!(I'm bit-coin poor too, that's why I'm trying to sell these.  ) I would like to offer handmade knotted yarn bookmarks for BTC. They have a loop at one end and a long strand at the other, so they can be used as a bookmark, a label, a decoration, or a bracelet. They would make a great back-to-school gift for a child.These are made similar to friendship bracelets, but out of yarn and with a specific technique that can be manipulated to form letters rather than the usual rows or chevrons. Thus I can customize them with a name or any desired text of limited length.I have placed a starting auction on biddingpond.com:http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=28There I am offering the first one starting at 150 BTC (plus 7 for s/h). This includes text up to eight characters plus choice of background color, text color, and optionally a border color.I would also like to offer them here at the rate of 20 BTC per character (minimum five characters) for a two-color bookmark.Additional customization options are possible; please contact me to work out a design if interested. Thank you.Donations or payments can be sent here: 1LbkvBeXju79haWNiQXgh4BsSgXZPC4Lvv Great, thank you. I'll be posting something soon. Why is the fee amount 7 BTC before any options have been chosen? Is it assumed that at least one picture will be uploaded? Can this option be turned off?
