Must be human. +1I'm actually surprised by the nethash. sometimes I feel like one.Its not good. A friend told me this is a legit project so I'm here to join your "giveaway".But to all ppl want to invest,you better hold until an escrow steps in.You can't be more careful these days. I have both and enjoy them very much. So finally funds started moving. Most likely because of high price. http://blockchain.info/tx/21ac34ced0f55701b38a3f8e02b9d2b8451db2f0071cd5c761a857d1ac0a78dfSo far I could point only forum's user *zvs*. His nogleg.com broadcasted quite a few treansactions in this chain and also he is from texas. Any idea how to tie these transactions to real person are very welcome. If this hacker was from texas, it will simplify matter a lot, as I am from texas too.. MissingMyCoins, we were hacked by the same guy. He stole over 3k coins years ago from me. Looks like he got some from you and now he moved all funds to withdraw 'em: http://blockchain.info/tx/21ac34ced0f55701b38a3f8e02b9d2b8451db2f0071cd5c761a857d1ac0a78dfHere is my "case" - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68066.msg848855#msg848855Any idea how to tie these to real person? So far I found only single connection - guy *zvs* from this forum running nogleg.com. Some transactions were broadcasted from this nogleg.com and also address near Dallas where he supposedly lives.. HostFat, you are right.In short - this was a poker site where people could play Texas Holdem. It is completely open source. That's why b ybuying domain name you essentially will get ahead of the rest of folks who will try to monetize on this project.This project was mentioned in interview Gavin Andresen and Amir Taaki: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&v=TwNfBgwbqng#t=2441sHere video of action - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N6SjCgOY61EThat's original topic where you can track whole history of the project - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=840.0That's short. If there any1 seriously interested I can try to setup the whole thing for demonstration.Project started loosing players when bitcoin crash happened. Now looks like it is perfect time to revive since bitcoin gets new heights. Any1? As some might know already, betco.in was hacked back in April. I could not track hacker as all connections were made through TOR and end point operator did not have logs (or did not want to cooperate). More details here - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68066.msg798421#msg798421I really appreciate loyalty of users of this project, but I still willing to reimburse as much as possible. Therefore whatever left of this project is for sale - software (main piece is open source, but theme is custom) + DB + domain name.I will be looking first to offers from people/companies willing to take over project's debt (total is about 2900 BTC. I will provide more detailed info on request from serious buyers). If nobody will be willing to take it over - I will consider best cash offer so I could get as much as possible to refund whatever I can.When selling project I will give DB with all passwords cleared out. Anyway, I will be considering any offer and you are welcome to contact me via PM and/or email pavel@yepcorp.com donatello, first thing i am trying (even if there are no much hope) - track it down. if nothing helps - try to sell business, if this will not work, it is just like with any other business going bankrupt - it all go nowhere. Believe me, I put a lot of dedication and hours into this project. You may check history of it on the forum and github project. I personally paid for work for this open source project. So it is quite a frustration for me.ps: if you are by any chance near Austin, TX area and very curious about it - I am more than welcome to meet and answer questions.  send me your paypal email and i will refund you yours $5. so far you are the only person giving me trouble and accusing in being a thief. i am not sketchy guy with random email, so your accusations are very off the line. this was my own vpn setup to keep secure network between my server and my laptop/workstation. But it also easied task to connect to my laptop... So I kept traffic encrypted over network but opened a door to somebody who pwned server.no, there is nothing in init.d. I am checking ssh keys and grep'ing disc image in hope to find something suspicious.  I was trying to answer emails/pms. Sorry if I missed yours somehow. Basically it is frozen right now. I still trying to decide how to proceed with it. I have no hope to track guy who did it, so unless somebody decide to buy service (like it happened with some exchanges) I probably never be able to pay it off. Service had little to no traffic and as a result virtually no profits. I received one email with offer to buy it out to be able to pay off user's balances, but this wasn't a contract or anything. I am still in the process of analyzing all data I have left to try to track one who did it. Who knows, may be he did some stupid error somewhere. server was hacked brutally. this time - not by stupid site bug, but something else. still looking.it would be fine, since I never keep all coins on server, but hacker was able somehow to hack into my laptop and desktop through vpn i have between my home and server and wiped all wallets i had in there.. have no clue how it was done yet. all machines uses different passwords and different ubuntu distro versions.still investigating. all money went there - http://blockexplorer.com/address/1L4kz6BA8mzi8KLV9VQ2pYcW8QQFVihWLg almost in the same time. this was quite sophisticated attack i must say.. I believe this should be solved by now. If not - email me at pavel@yepcorp.com I am tinkering with my own *coin project, and one part of it was missing in OSS world - Faucet. (Block Explorer already exists - Abe!)As a test, I set up Namecoin Faucet at http://faucet.yepcorp.com . luke-jr and cocktopus already donated enough namecoins to it, so you can try it in action. GitHub page - https://github.com/hippich/FaucetIt is based on Catalyst perl framework, which leverage my Catalyst::Model::Bitcoin module (which in turn leverage another, Toby's, module Finance::Bitcoin).It is very simple - it uses Cache::FastMmap to keep track of IP addresses of visitors and number of requests done. What this mean - simply deployment (no DB) and no persistence between server restarts (application restarts should be fine, since session file stored in /tmp folder by default). Also, if amount of cached data will become bigger then cache size - unused records will get purged from the cache... Protection from double-requests based only on IP addresses and reCAPTCHAs right now. No Google Account authentication like Gavin's Faucet have. Might be included in version 2 if it ever happen So.. Please help test both front end and, if someone good enough with perl/linux, backend.  I want to try to do small promotion. Will see if it take of and if it do - I will work on implementing some code to do more often. (Right now it will be totally manual process )Happy Halloween 20% Deposit Bonus - see first post - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=840.msg9795#msg9795 Sorry to get into offtopic, but how sealswithclubs.org is open sourced? Where I can download its source code?
Yeah. Interesting idea. Also major stats on what tables are live, etc. And also more information about rake and rake back..  Exactly for this reason I keep free roll going on - you do not need a penny to participate in it. It needs just 6 persons to start. And these freerolls restarts every hour or even faster (depending on how popular this free roll is). So I believe it is best way to try it out - you can play and also you can get some chips you can use to play ring games.  Running small promotion - http://twitter.com/betcoin/status/121280707644497921 right now  Downloaded from ubitious and reading right now - upload legit. And really fascinating! Oops. Somehow missed new posts 2HostFat - I am working on some new features and these require quite substantial code refactoring. Also, main development still done in the old github repo - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room2SmokeAndMirrors - this project is mix of several open source projects + my own stuff on top of it. Poker server written on Python, table itself - mostly jQuery, and my stuff, actual website - Perl. I put more global measures in place preventing large scams. Small scams.. I assume this is just business operation expenses? =)) My current measure is to control it manually. And prevent it early. Also I have some hard prevention mechanism in place which keep site from loosing many coins at once. I have some ideas how to make it more sophisticated and automated, but current profit from this project does not make any sense to do it (just like it would not make any sense for someone to build bot for this site - too much time and too little profit).I am more interested in... if 26 "free" bitcents per hour is interesting for people, will 2 bitcents interesting as well? Where is this line where it become economically not worth it? Noviz, could you give me a hint how to implement good anti-duplicate account measure? =) Just keep in mind - this is bitcoin, not credit cards used to fund account.I know a bit about online security. And running 10 virtual boxes with VPNs set to different IP address seems like an easy solution against any anti-duplicate measure right now. =)Remember - there are no 100% secure websites. And you can't do it. What you should try to do - make it economically nonsense to exploit "flaws" (just like bitcoins 51% attack - it can be done, but with this amount of power you can get much more legitimate way). Where I was mistaken - amount of incentive needed to make people try to use this "flaw".  Thank you =) The only flaw was assuming nobody will be trying to cheat for bitcents. =)Because it was not like this before =). I believe ridiculous bitcoin price jump caused all sort of scumbags getting into it. There will be never free tables like you see in existing poker rooms. But there will be something else you might like. I will announce it once it is ready for a spin. =) I am not going after him in any case. It is not a point of this post. 78 bitcents worth like 4 bucks. I just fascinated how small-minded some folks are (became?). I can understand why people hack mtgox. Not that I agree with it, but I can understand what motivates 'em. but this... It is like stealing plastic bags from Walmart =)) This was not a bot for sure. It was manual work. On the other hand - producing bot who can deal with whole poker protocol, website, registration, bitcoins, etc while would be pretty exciting work, will never pays back since amount of time to invest into it incredible. not saying you should be smarter then this guy to actually do that. =) I expected it could be hijacked like this. It is a main reason why I made 0.01 BTC prize pool for each tourney (I thought to make it something like 0.1 - 1 initially). I believed nobody will want to make it their full time job. Apparently I was wrong (guy was still running his "operation" when I spotted this). =) with all my optimism here, i do not see this happening soon. but i would like it to be like this.. well.. to use any flaw you need an effort. spend 3 hours to get 78 bitcents? this community was better before.. Here are nicks of this guy. Something suggest me he is russian. I am russian myself, so this is even more depressing:MelloNearZorroNextZidanChampionjessygreenmsGoodLuckalexalexAnd here are his addresses.1LtxvKpmn4AG23NbqwzsbYTUkQaY625ceR1AbCJgVvuz1Cc7DHg83zCEbgDTwtK1gKbM1LSN7yZ6esfBxSfoKt77LpbDxQ8d3bzRL31FiMSaS9MxZYNbKgKM7bvkDj91cHDvtotc12U3kJic1pREtLHWj2JsvtRmbMbFEsS24T1DR2QEnzJrRBpX8DhpdpaiBvgyGpHxZy9W Today I opened admin panel of my http://betco.in to find out that some "smart" kid created 6 accounts and was playing currently running free roll SNG tourney. With all ins in each game. He was hunting for 1 chip (i.e. 1 bitcent). He was able to withdraw this "astonishing" amount of bitcoins during 3 HOURS - incredible 78 bitcents!People, c'mon. What will be next? You will be looking to get 5 bitcents by scamming someone? Then 1 bitcent?very disappointed...Hope price will drop enough to get rid of all these scumbags. 2weiX, absolutely agree that using seat position is pretty dumb. Here is why I am using it - simply order of appearance information is not available in code. And I would assume players who know about this current scheme will be able to sit at most profitable seat.Good thing - I put point awards code into separate class and from now it is much easier to develop it further. Once we add code for storing order of appearance in game state - I will be able to use it instead of position (it should be as simple as changing pair of variables now)..Hope this make sense... Just pushed new code update for points-based rake back system. Once you reach 100 points you can exchange them at 1 point = 1 chip rate.Number of points depends on rake paid and position on the table. It varies from 10% to 120% - yes, you can get 20% more chips then rake paid!Here is url to file for implementation of points - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/blob/master/lib/ppn/pokernetwork/pokerbonus.pyShortly - if there only two players - first one will get 20% rake back points, second one - 10% rake back points. If there are 7 or more players, first player will get 120% rake back points!Now how place is defined - first place at 10-max table is left top, next one - next clockwise seat. On HU table - top one. Once more tables be added I will add page describing in details rules of this points system.So if you are going to play - make sure to sit at top left seat and once you will get 7+ players at the table you will actually start earn money from rake!All this is very rough. It might change in future and I am looking to get feedback =) dentldir, here we go - http://blockexplorer.com/address/1Uwrn7EyV5EfEZik4P2eYHsm9noybW6f8 ! =)
How degraded this community... (sigh)I had two cases where my project had flaws. One in December 2010 and one in April 2011.In December guy withdraw everything from project through this flaw in order others could not do it, contacted me and returned all money to safe location..In April some hacker hacked project and despite writing email that he is going to return money and this should be lesson for me, disappeared.Today - person openly confirm he stole money and not going to return em.. And most ridiculous part - there are many who support it! Stupid people...Personally, I returned a lot of wrong sent coins due different bugs and mistypes. And I will do this in future.  Both #28 and #42 were implemented by dentldir! Thank you very much!Over weekend I plan to think about other features I think project needs bounty. Stay tuned!ps: if you have ideas for bounty - post here! it will not be easy upgrade for sure. i would not expect it soon. unless this project explode in visitors and i could hire team around it.. Please put features in to different branches so I could test and merge these separately. Let me know if you need to know how to do it (email at pavel@yepcorp.com) I think removing button completely will be less confusing? Thank you! Looking forward to these features! Thank you megabytes for committing code for issue #27! I am still uploading virtualbox machine (connection dropped yesterday) with everything configured so development could be easier and it could be done locally.. Email me at pavel@yepcorp.com and I will send you a link to download as soon as it finish upload. Although, it is pretty big - 1 GB megabytes implemented fix for #27. it is pending review. others - yes! Added https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues/27 with 10 BTC bounty Added https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues/42 with 5 BTC bounty Thanks for reminder - was busy implementing Bcrypt hashing and finally did it! Here is long story why bcrypt is better - http://chargen.matasano.com/chargen/2007/9/7/enough-with-the-rainbow-tables-what-you-need-to-know-about-s.html . Basically, this means that even if my server get hacked, your passwords are safe.Just processed all withdrawal requests.  Ok, since you spammed my topics I'll show you your place..While I agree look'n'feel of betco.in require work (I do, soon you will see V2), there are few things you should noticed before posting this post above:- Betco.in is open source. What this means for you? This means you know how your password stored on server, you know there is no cheating built-in, you know that client running on your computer will not steal any info. Do you know how btcontilt.com stores your password? Are you sure they do not store it plain text? And when their WINDOWS (everybody knows about windows "security") server will be hacked, your passwords everywhere will be pwned as well just like it happened with MtGox?- To start site like btcontilt you need 29.95 bucks to buy poker script + WINDOWS dedicated server - here you can buy it yourself - http://www.briggsoft.com/pmavens.htm. This means any one can do this, get few players deposits and disappear. This also means there is nothing special about design - they used it as is. On the other hand betco.in is open source project with real people behind it and this project was growing with bitcoin community in same open manner. Real people contribute their ideas and code to the project. I already developed new design and I will push V2 on 1 YEAR ANNIVERSARY of this project (how long btcontilt is on the market =))- I am hiring programmers to develop features or fix bugs, and give back results back to community. So anybody could start their own poker room with their own features. - Since their project based on cheap of-shelf script, you have only Texas Hold'em. On betco.in you have Omaha/Omaha8 (and hopefuly I will ever get to fixing Stud =))- We host ongoing SNG tourney with 0.01 BTC prize pool. 20 chips in btcontilt is like 0.002 BTC? (I am not sure about this - did not deposit my money there). MTT tourneys are coming with V2- Flash.... People, c'mon! This is 2011! Flash is dead (or it should be =)). How you are going to play it from your phone or iPad? And never ever install Flash on the same computer where you hold your bitcoins... https://blog.whitehatsec.com/vulnerabilities-in-a-flash/ just one example.. Google for vulnerabilities in Flash.- And no serious sites uses google spamming to get on 2nd place in search results. If you will google for "btcontilt.com" you find millions of links in trash article/links directories... This is just not OPEN.Hope I am clear. I am totally ok with existence of btcontilt.com. It takes its niche, I take mine. Just do not use spam and behave nicely to not look dumb =) rouhaud, how this relate to Betco.in payout times topic? Any "newbies" out there - feel free to post any questions related to betco.in here. I know it might be a pain to get enough points to post in regular forums =) I know this is late answer. Just found this topic searching for something random... Just to make sure it is clear how it operates.Here is current "security" system preventing site to loose too much bitcoins if security vulnerability found - keep only small amount of coins on server. The rest is withdrawn to safe location. If withdrawal amount was larger then available balance on server, withdrawal order is created, but not marked as processed. I go through list of withdrawals once-twice per day and do manual payment to these unprocessed orders and then mark em as processed.If there are any questions about withdrawal/deposit process - feel free to post here or email me at webmaster@betco.in Here I plan to post links to particular issues of Open Source Poker Room project and bounty for fixing it. Remember - your code will become part of public domain and you will get paid for it! Full attribution to you will be kept as well!Current bounties:1) 10 BTC - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues/28 - Implemented by dentldir2) 5 BTC - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues/42 - Implemented by dentldir3) 10 BTC - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues/27 - Implemented by megabytesHow it should work - if not already, open GitHub.com account, and fork project https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room . Fix issue from the list above and issue pull request. Once your code applied - I will contact your for details of the payment. I doubt this will happen, but if two pull request submitted at the same project, I reserve right to select better one. You may want to contribute other code to the project and I will give back some coins for it as well - I just can't provide exact amount up-front. If you are looking to fix something  outside of list above and want to know how much I am willing to pay for this - contact me at pavel@yepcorp.com Heh. You are right. Gmail put your mails into spam folder for some reason.. Marked all your emails as not spam so next time it should go straight into mailbox. If you will not get response - PM me here =) kabevinetto, no, I am not on vacation and I've been in IRC last time on Friday...I am sorry for delay, really busy weekend. Glad you posted it here - so I noticed a lot of unprocessed withdrawals. Just processed all of them. Let me know if you will not receive yours.Also, you said you contacted me and did not receive response, how did you contact me? Via e-mail posted on site? This is "ghost town": TL;DR; this is just seasonal drop in site traffic due drop in bitcoin popularityLong:Trayber, problem with cheating/bots/etc (what is etc in this case?) was only with few players (possible same person behind usernames). Real players who play with real money and not register accounts just to bash admins and other players, do not have problems on the site.Just an example: NaturalOrder8 in one of chats on btcontilt.com asked Weaver (support guy on the website) to go fuck himself after Weaver tried to resolve issue.... Great respect for Weaver's patience.. This kind of players will have "problems" on any website.Just like before bitcoins skyrocketed, there is no a lot of traffic going on right now. That's why you see less players playing. http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin&ctab=0&geo=all&date=2011&sort=0Traffic dropped to April levels and my site is still first on google for bitcoin poker. As you can see, interest in bitcoins right now is 25% of what it was when site was "best poker site" =)I bet dropped price of bitcoin also contributed into it - I've seen huge withdrawal requests, possible from players, who wanted to cash out their bitcoins..
Just pushed S'n'G tourney code. Please help test. Right now there is scheduled single Free Roll SNG with 1 chip prize pool. How I can instruct bitcoin client to not generate new addresses, but use existing ones? This is what I really do not like about it - not being able to tell when client used new address for change or reused already genereated one. x0Jakeyboy0x, his intention is not to get answer, but start holy war. I already pointed several time online in chat that StarTheory is not a bot. I answered here that too. And if you do not believe my word.. well.. I doubt there is anything else that can prove you =) I closed your account? =)) That's a news  Ha, so you both are same person, I see =)  2NaturalOrder8, I have different opinion. Since you did not ask me anything (sometimes you see users terrorize services to get something back - money or free service or something else), you own or affiliated with other poker rooms. Only this way can be explained why you are trolling here. Here is log of "polite" asking me something: site was down yesterday for the whole night + a bit in the morning.startheory player is not a bot 100%. bitbetter, for now i want try to keep anonymous play via tor. and black/white listing by IP address will eliminate it. Will see. If people start abuse it - I will start blacklisting. But I hope I will not need it. yeah. i will try it another time. since i am worried about it. My _current_ view in short form: =)1) Multi accounts - I can't prevent it from creation due nature of internet and bitcoin. If someone can come up with good strategy to prevent it - let me know. Until then I will allow it as long as it is the only issue with player.2) Forfeiting funds - this happened only once in the life of the project. In that case person had three accounts and was colluding another guy. Forfeited funds were used to re-pay what another player lost due colluding.3) Why forfeiting funds instead of banning users - see #1 - there is no way to ban user. Only if user be afraid to loose their money I can be sure they will not do tricky stuff.4) If you catch colluder(s) - email me with hands ## and their nicknames and I will look into it.5) Be nice to other players and you will never have any problems on this site. correction: messes with players playing here.  as i said before - this is private club. i want people to be nice to each other. if one player drives crazy 9 other players at the table - i will kick him out.now, i never said you were using many account in the SAME time. I said you had more then one account. This is separate topic if this should be allowed or no, but I tend to agree it should be allowed as long as this is the only "problem" player cause to other players. In the end - nobody even will notice that.Now, you were able to withdraw your funds. But if I would notice you using same account at the same time at the same table - believe me, your account would be locked before anyone complain. And yes - i will do what I feel right to do since I am _admin_ of the site. trayber, my target is not being pokerstar. it would be nice, but believe me, i do software development for living, and i understand what it involves to get near PS level.I just enjoy the ride building what i like. and this is primary reason why i reacted like this to pokermon accusations - this is very personal project.Now, calm down and if you know any good developers (or may be you are the one one?!) who can hep with theses issues (not for free, but their changes will be available as a part of the whole open source project), give me a lead to them. I wish it become second PS, but even if it will get there - i will take a while. Right now I have very limited number of users and will not allow bashing lucky one just 'cos he went all in several times and won. This is small party and I would like to keep it friendly. And just like I said before, any accusation of somebody of cheating - is accusation of my project being cheat-able. And since this is very small project - I care about what people says. Once it will be PS (fingers crossed =)) I and other players will not even notice guys like pokermon =) So problem will disappear by itself.Most of the time I stay to what I said. I would like keep this in history so other people could expect certain things.I am really bad at poker =) For my history playing just on betco.in I lost about 300+ coins... That's too much for me. May be eventually at 0.01/0.02 tables... =))) 2weiX, this is not walmart-type business, where customer can just come and start bashing everyone including owner, and leave unaffected. Treat this place as private club. If you have problems - contact me and we will resolve 'em (we already did before). this pokermon/superman/whatever_nicks_he_registered is simply troll, who can't even put his money where his mouth is. and instead of apology of his ontilt behavior, he just removes his posts.  You did it several times.i spent 30 minutes analyzing hands and looking how y'all playing and then stepped in just to ask you stop saying he is cheater. I do not have to sit at the table to see hands, nor see table playing nor to see chats.here is ultimate prove he is fair player: his total deposits were lower then he withdraw in total. Do you think if he could find such a hole in the site he will be leaving room with less then he came in? Once again, to not look like a dumb, do not accuse people of cheating ever without having evidence. (again - "10+ years of poker experience" - is not an evidence). This way you look like a child who lost and try to blame everybody except himself. and for me important two things: reputation of my website and reputation of my users.i had issue with cheaters. but this one - is definitely not one.so if you have something except "i have 10+ years of poker experience" put it down or shut up (or better for your karma - give apology to everyone you insulted). Don't get me wrong.. But this "case" took my 30 minuts (which cost a lot btw) and you convinced bunch of people that site is hackable and that one of players (who BTW do not have several accounts) is cheater. Will you put your balance where your mouth is? let's make it easier for you. will you put your whole balance on what you tries to prove here? I have much more hands histories of this guy then you...
exactly. what can you put on table to prove you are right? and i came to table because someone was sending me chats. i looked at how it was going on and after seeing you and other players accusing another guy of cheating - i stepped in. btw i still look over what you chat about even if i do not sit there...  prove it or shut up. it is simple. hm. right.. will add this to issues list with important status. ChloeST, thank you for this report. Although it is not what I am looking for. We support only Chrome and FireFox browsers and this is something specific to opera only (i tested it in other browser and it works fine in the same configuration).What I am looking here for - you get no buttons in the middle of the game in Chrome or FireFox.ps: sent 1 btc just to encourage more that kinds of bug reports posted. looks like they just "took space". but i kinda like their design =) Ah. Now make sense. =)Yeah, I need to go away from rounding to 2 digits after dot completely. It was laid down when software did not support more then 2 digits after dot =)) That's very strange, since I approved batch of withdrawal today and 90% of them are x.xx type of numbers.just random thought - do you use dot or comma? never tried comma and pretty sure it will not work. Non decimals should work fine. Did you receive message that your withdrawal needs additional processing or it did not go through at all? I believe it is too soon. Successful startup should deliver what community needs and time when community wants it.  iamhiv, thanx for this lead. I will definitely check it! I called him simply jerk. )) since i can't be sure about his stupidness yet =) I just went through process of filling protest and can confirm - no fees required at this point. Simply point to wrong doing by this lawyer with links to resources dated before June 2011. Also make sure to include all evidence as a PDF attached, since letter itself will not go to attorney, only attachments. I included printout of Wikipedia page about bitcoin and Satoshi's technical paper as attachments as well as PDF of my actual letter just to make sure it get through. Received answer from TMFeedback. I encourage everyone proceed with filing protest. Here is his (lawyers) response - http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2737435 Repeated.2All: Rinse and repeat! in real life you are allowed to muck loosing hand if you are after winning hand. the bluff is huge part of the game and mucking hand is important part of it. In online poker it would be good to have option to see mucked hand in order to prevent misuse of this feature. We were discussing this a lot. We came to conclusion that to take good from both approaches, we will allow to muck loosing hand, but show full hands in history. iamhiv, thank you for your info. First also said that he got disappeared buttons after Rebuy, so I assume this is right way to dig it. Will test this locally.As for unable to raise - sounds like you are correct - some small part is being rounded wrong way somewhere. Will look into this as well. well.. i can't rid of them 'cos some people like slow play.. Just sit at fast table and may be join slow table and offer player to join fast table. Could you please find hand # in My Account - Hands history for this game? Sounds like a bug.
part of my work back then was introducing packets send retries and detecting connection break with showing notice. If this do not show up in players windows and in the same time packets are lost/not delivered in time - this is bug...  Thanks. I will put this into queue list. But I rather was talking about disappearing call/fold/raise button when it is your turn and timer keeps counting. It happened often in the beginning of this year. 2All: There another way to create meaningful report for me - table runs in verbose mode and if you use Chrome or FireFox with Firebug - there will be alot of stuff going on in the console. Leave it open while playing and when something wrong happen - copy/paste the whole log from console to pastebin.com or similar service and post here a link to it with small description what happened.  I tend to disagree. Previous bug with freezing was quite easily replicated. And it was very hard to fix. If you are programmer - I can point you on commits list and you can see how it evolved.I am not looking for recipe to fix it, but rather steps to replicate it.  if there problem in code it should expose itself immediately. What you are talking about - random drops of connection which will happen for sure during long play.  Ok. Lets make it easier. Please record screencast when it breaks. And if this repeatable - I will award this bounty.I.e. I need not "sometimes" description, but rather "do #1, #2, #3 and you will get frozen buttons" or something like this.Just like you describe that you had problems with buttons while do some streaming, I can confirm I do not have these problems even over tor. That's why I believe there should be a pattern breaking things. Or it is simply how end user internet connection works. I need someone who can break table in my https://betco.inHere is why - several months ago it was normal every few hands refresh table due missing buttons, some actions going weird or game just freezes itself. I found why this was happening and fixed it. Now, I still read reports from time to time that people loose control buttons during game at the table. I am looking into server logs, other players - and these report looks more like connectivity issue on player side... But I still want to try to break it without loosing connection.So...I will pay 5 btc to person who first will come with set of steps to break game at the table at https://betco.in . I only count breaks which I can recreate locally. I.e. I should follow you steps and get no buttons and ticking timer, and eventually timeout without being able to do any action.Post it here, so we have evidence who did it first.Two (or more) different ways of breaking things each get their own 5 btc!Update:The easiest way - record screencast. I will do exactly same steps and if I will get same problem - I will award bounty to screencast author.Update 2:There another way to create meaningful report for me - table runs in verbose mode and if you use Chrome or FireFox with Firebug - there will be alot of stuff going on in the console. Leave it open while playing and when something wrong happen - copy/paste the whole log from console to pastebin.com or similar service and post here a link to it with small description what happened. You could save your time if instead of contacting me over email + private message + icq + here by reading what site says you when you do withdrawal. To make sure you read it this time - it says that withdrawal will be processed within 24 hours.  http://bit.ly/jWsD69 Bike is in Austin, TX Thanks for feedback! =)As for time bank - each table have 5 limits. 1 - slowest, 5 - fastest (make sure you are on a good connection to server to play at table 5). Just browse available tables on the left and sit at one you like =) MrMoon, just to make sure it is clear (it wasn't for me in the beginning). AGPL license require that changed code base should be available for immediate download on the site. I did it through setting up GIT repository and providing link to .tar.gz archive with complete source code. You can do similar - IMHO this is the easiest way. Or you can create archive and update it every time you update sourcecode and upload it to predefined place on your website (imho cumbersome =))And good luck! It will be interesting how it will evolve with e-sports betting for sure! NO!First of all - create separate user for bitcoin with encrypted home folder. When you need to run client - switch to this separate user account, do transaction and then log out from this user account. This way you may be sure that no files left unencrypted (remember, if someone will get root or physical access all unencrypted files are accessible).Second - in order to backup to ubuntu one - do so with first encrypting wallet.dat with your own pgp key. Make sure you can encrypt and decrypt it first of course. Use very strong and long password for your private key.If you hold large amounts - consider creating "savings wallet". I.e. separate wallet.dat which is encrypted and contained in something. For example you can cerate virtual machine with ubuntu and put your "savings" wallet there. Then shutdown machine, encrypt it with pgp and put on ubuntu one.ps: be paranoid. Sorry guys if I missed someone. PMs here are very hard to track. Please post you questions and offers in this topic. Here is Flippa.com auction. http://bit.ly/kSk4GO Will accept bitcoins. We wont to hire web developer for our project. This is small job paid in dollars through oDesk (if you want, I can pay directly through bitcoin here). Your work become part of AGPL software with all recognition's. My budget is $500 or bitcoins equivalent.Here is oDesk page - http://bit.ly/ktIHlS - feel free to apply there. Or email me at pavel@yepcorp.com 0.01 - 0.02 - is lowest possible table.  Each account have uniq btc address. All money sent to this address will be deposited to your account. Emergency address is for case when some disaster happen (read, some government agency do a raid to data center and steal whole rack of servers instead of just one offending... =)). Server stores only small amount of bitcoins. Therefore it will be possible to return most of 'em in case of server problems.  It is not under any type of review. I setup cron script which send away most of coins from server. If server unable to send coins right away - it will tell you. Once this happens I go to admin panel, look for not processed withdrawal and send em from local wallet. That's it =) I understand that this can be annoying but  I once lost 680 btc due everything being automated and security vulnerability exposed =)  Just processed all unprocessed withdrawals. People tries to low ball it.. Check out what is included in the rig and please no low balling =):= Main system:7200 RPM 750GB Internal Desktop SATA Hard Drive 3.5" HDNEW 8GB 2 X 4GB DDR3 1333MHz PC3 10600 DESKTOP RAM 1333Intel Core i7 950 3.06 GHz CPU ProcessorMSI X58M Motherboard2x ATI 5970 1GbCOOLMAX RM-1000B 1000W EPS12V Active PFC Power SupplyInWin Dragon case (4 fans)= Watercooling system:2x Ek Water Blocks EK-FC 5970 Acetal Plated Full Cover Radeon HD 5970 GPU Block G1/43x Koolance Fan, 120x25mm (FAN-12025MBK) 89.5CFM 30.10dBAXSPC Single 5.25" Bay Reservoir (Alu Front) Danger Den DD-CPX-Pro 12V Pump for Liquid CoolingKoolance Radiator, 3x120mm, Copper HX-CU1020VKoolance Dual VID Connector, Adjustable 1 Slot SpacingWATER COOL ACC ENZOTECH HF-G1/4-12W/C ACC ENZOTECH HFS-G1/4-12D10 %Bitspower G 1/4 Matte Black 1/2in. ID Barb BP-MBWP-C01Koolance Nozzle Single G 1/4 Swivel Angled NZL-L13B Bump =) InWin Dragon something. Have no clue - just went to frys and bought most agressive looking case. Had to turn off front logo LED - cards too long and I had to relocate cooler where led suppose to light. So no nice looking front logo =(
I want to raise few bucks for hiring developer for betco.in project. I have my rig or parts for sale.Except PSU everything you see on picture is sell-able. This PSU did not handle it so I am in the process of RMAing it and for now I have 1kW PSU which handle the whole setup on stock clocks well.I have two cards ATI 5970, never been overclocked since my PSU just can't handle it. You will need good 1250W psu, not Xion =))Each card have water block, 3 fan radiator, 36W water pump pumping coolant through them.This rig have MSI X58M motherboard with i950 and 8Gb of RAM. 750Gb hdd.I am looking to sell cards for $500 shipped each or with complete WC system for $1300 both shipped (watercooling keeps cards at 50C when ambient temperature is 80F) + completely silent.I can sell the whole rig, but not sure if this viable since it is pretty heavy. But if you like it - I can sell the whole thing. If you need I can prepare everything for mining on it as well.Anyway, everything discus-sable. Post here any questions. Thanks for reporting this. I will put this into issues list. It supposed to allow you to keep window with table open without being sit any amount of time. If it "kicks out" - this probably a bug. To see why this happens I need to know more information. The best will be to see log from Console from Developer Tools in Chrome or FireBug in FireFox. Thanks. Although, it was much lighter issue back then =) But lesson learned and no big balances left on server.But still, I believe it's owner of the coins who should be responsible for most coins. Keep only minimal amount you use on third party services (including mine). The rest - in safe place. It's just a good idea. Hacker will have to work much more to hack individual users instead one centralized place.ps: fixed _possible_ csrf issue right after heard about all these issues with mtgox. pps: I recommend people to change their passwords on betco.in if you used same password on mtgox.com. Ah. And of course I will trow in Twitter account. I.e. everything you need to take full ownership. I am looking to sell Ubitio.us - http://ubitio.us'Ubitious' is a file sharing site.Features:- Very simple.- No registration required, no logs kept.- Unlimited file size.- 7 days expiration after last download.- Earn bitcoins for all your files downloads.- Auto thumbnails feature for image and video uploads.- It's free to upload file and to download you need to pay at least 2 bitcents.If you want to earn money for your files, you need to invest into this file first. After uploading of the file you will be given bitcoin address where to send your invested bitcoins. Price to download will be set to amount you invested. You will get 70% share for each download.This service is ideal for selling art, songs, software.It's written on Perl + Catalyst Framework (same software used in my Bitcoin Poker Room - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room)Database backend - simple Sqlite file database but can be deployed to MySQL easily - thanks to DBIx::Class module authors.Files are stored on amazon s3. Authentication used to prevent hot linking and not paid file downloads.Domain receives about 50 visitors daily with spikes when someone share something on reddit.com or alike.I would not say it great money wise as is - it was just fun project, but it generated about 2 bitcoins revenue over last 3 month =)) But probably right marketing and more features will finally kick it.Code written pretty well + some unit tests for model in place. There is no tests for File controller tho, I was more worried about model (part handling files storage a payments - ie most of business logic).As result of purchase you will receive full GIT repository + current DB + domain. Not sure how to deal with existing uploads... There are not too many, but I do not think there is a way to move amazon S3 bucket automagically.. So probably some hand work will be required there - will see. I have no idea how much it should cost, so please post offers in this topic. If I will not receive good offer I will open source it closer to domain expiration date. Only bitcoins offers are accepted. 340   Bitcoin   6.27   1LYGCz9C2DDwmAwZR9s7qnCaPoJBEXEmRe   2011-05-08T23:26:45   2011-05-08T23:26:45341   Bitcoin   6.66   1MeU1RQE6tBGDJ3dgoVBy7BtJuPrvhtTxE   2011-05-09T01:46:21   2011-05-09T01:46:21This are two withdrawal done from your account. if you do not recognize these - contact me via email to investigate it. Currently only real room fans sits there constantly. And they are definitely not bots. Just play for fun and fast =)From my experience, room sees the most people during late evening US time and less during weekends. Nothing set in stone and you are right - I am going to find best way to tell what is real stakes are. Either through using "chips" as internal currency or referring to bitcents (or bitmili ?). Anyway, this project will be changing constantly to fit most of requirements of players that's why I need your feedbacks. Thank you! all tables are in bitcents right now. ie 10/20 - is 0.1BTC/0.2BTC  Try to clear cache. I am pretty sure that should do it. Installed both FF3.6 and FF4 into Win7 - in both betco.in tables pages work fine. Could you post screenshot of an issue?Site uses bitcents now everywhere except deposit/withdrawal page. I.e. on the 1c/2c table you real blinds are 0.0001btc / 0.0002btci think it was forever. will look in to it after major problems solved. teppy, and how you deal with withdrawal? do you accept to withdraw less then 0.01 BTC? Added chips voting option I mean to call play unit "chip". On deposit/withdraw page tell player that he can obtain 100 chips for 1 bitcoin (same with withdraw). And on account page and on the table operate with chips.Of course bitcoins still be the only payment option.What do you think? I am really concerned about bitcoin price fluctuating a lot. And what was 6 cents 9 month ago now cost 8 bucks. And now 0.02 big blind is not that small...  Could someone else confirm this bug? I just tried in Win7 with freshly downloaded Chrome and it works.tomcollins, what browser and OS version you use? may be something specific to these versions.. Also, please try to clear cache and try again. May be something cached? I think to remove mention of bitcoins at all from website except from deposit/withdrawal page and refer to "points" or "chips" instead. This way it will be easier to adopt in future. What do you think? Hands are saved in DB, but in not human-readable way. Once I will fix connection issues I plan to implement hands history viewer as well. I just switched main unit to bitcents at https://betco.in . We were discussing this and I can'd decide what will feel more natural: bitcents (0.01 BTC) or milibitcoins (0.001). May be something else?  Room switched to bitcents. i.e. if you see on table 1, this means you bet 0.01 BTC.
Today thisweekin.com should do live interview with Gavin and I believe they should touch poker topic as well. I hope it will bring some users too =)Show should start today at 1pm PST if I am correct - http://twitter.com/TWistartups/status/67800608727498752 Thank you Third Way for letting us know!BTW, this is the best way to get into game - sit at table and post announce (here or in separate topic). Bitcoin forum have a lot of visits and your post will be noticed for sure! Technically this is doable, but it's too much hassle. I have more bigger problems and do not want introduce something which will potentially bring even more problems. So, no. No free tables. URL is https://betco.in - there is no alot of players and usually they get in to room during evenings.  great start! things should be easy to implement:- refresh cards through ajax- show current player's and dealer's pointsprobably, not so easy to implement:- split button Just to let everybody know - after roughly 24 hours transaction is still unconfirmed =) http://bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin/ - 1Hu65a4f13rWcK8fs2hmwq9FPEXQ6ZYBnuBTW, can someone explain in layman words where from priority is defined? thank you. now this makes more sense =) So... we are at the point where we need to have higher divisibility of coins to make sure we can send 0.01 without paying 0.01 in fees. The questions is - one block can contain 1k transactions, why last blocks contain only dozens of transactions when there is 600+ unconfirmed transactions in the queue? Yeah. I can see my transaction in this list. Hm. This means that either big pools ignore "free" transactions or that my client do not have connection to network.. I see 8 connections available to daemon. So it definitely connected to network but for some reason - very slow. And I had similar reports from people trying to deposit money to my room - getting 1st confirmation takes hours sometimes. I know it. It's just a point. Before all your transfers almost always were included into first generated block. Now you need to wait way more. And with more trading happening, this will happen more often. I sent some bitcents to btcJack site few hours ago and transaction still not included in block chain.. Are we at the point where most transactions will require fee to be included into chain? If so - we definitely need to work on smaller divisibility, since 0.01 current smallest fee is to big for certain transactions. I believe at this point we will not have this particular problem due to small size. But if someone suspect non honest game - please report. If it become often enough I will develop tools/policies to review such cases and prevent harm from it. anisoptera fixed rake code. so room take rake now. We do not charge rake if the hand ends on the first betting round - before the flop.Heads-Up: we collect 1% rake with x5 BB cap and 0.5 BTC absolute cap.Round: we collect 1% rake with x10 BB cap and 2 BTC absolute cap.This should help us to develop it faster since we have incentive now =) moa, this is completely different beast. I would like to implement it all, but I do not have enough time for poker... But I bet if you post it in marketplace section, someone will come with it.  BTW, anisoptera started to work on back-end. And HU blinds were fixed by her! Due huge jump in BTC price, I adjust rate. New rate is 2 BTC / 1000 words. I've updated code with submitted HU game patch. Please try it and let me know if it works correctly.Also, I've added bunch of HU tables. Not sure if we need that much, so comments are welcome. Another user submitted patch for reversed blinds, but, as others says, current code base I leverage is a mess. So I might start building the whole thing from the ground. (Hell, if I will not be able to monetize betco.in, I can sell engine itself for a bunch of bucks =)). As for enforced showdown.. I see a lot of opinions on this. I think it will make more sense to implement it by table instead of at the whole room level. That's been said, current software will not support this for sure in any way. Oh. Now it makes more sense. I will reconfigure tables once room will be empty since I need to restart server to changes take effect.
Just rechecked transactions. Found that not all hacker's withdrawals were successful. Only 680 btc stolen. I do not have a lot experience in online poker, so I am sorry for stupid questions.. Could you explain what is referenced by these 200/400 then if blinds are 100/200?The whole server I believe is built around idea of dealing with hands like in real poker. I do not believe I will be able at this point modify code to enforce showdown cards in the end of game (I do not have needed skills for this). I still believe our community is small enough to have such problems. If you do not believe to someone - do not play with them. the particular security issue hacker used will not be avoided by technique you describe. Any code can have security issues. My bug was so simple... =)) Here is it - https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/commit/ef5f1a181fb207fe5e1260b3190835384fe99190I am using much more stupid but rigid system - coins are transferred from server to my own local wallet. Only small change is left to process small withdrawal amounts. Big ones proceeded manually. So even if code will be hacked (and this happens), only change will be lost, not the whole balance.On the other note - hacker, who contacted me, never replied nor sent funds. So either he was not real hacker or just decided to use money instead of returning. Probably his point is just to teach me or something like this. Bug was really stupid. Anyway, let me see coins on my address first. This email could come from anybody. Hehe. I was telling same "it's not real money" when I found someone took all bitcoins... =)) On the other note, someone contacted me via email as mikerka and said he decide to return money. So fingers crossed.. =) wow.. that's close to $3k. real stuff! 5% with cap, not 5% from the whole pot. in November i had 3% rake without limit. it was annoying to some guys when they were playing with hundreds in stakes. =) Cap I believe should be somehow correlated with blinds size. They have complicated enough rake structure tho.. i will probably try to implement it as 5% with some fixed cap for all table for now. Implementing rake per table will be too much for me right now =) But do not afraid - I have more important stuff to work on so this room will be rake-free for a while. But donations/tips are always welcomed! =) What is adequate size of rake? Keeping in mind bugness and beta state of software.. =)) Thanks for your input. I would like to hear what other members think about best combination of tables. This part is matter of messing with configuration files, so I can implement this fairly easy. Also I never played anything beside hold'em, so I really do not know any details about other poker games (it just came with software and I left it as is). If there are bugs with it - please let me know. Probably it will make sense to push bug report to server software author.Could someone else comment on this too? I do not have much experience in poker, but I always believe .01-.02 should refer to small and big blinds. Is this really incorrect? Any examples? If you want to donate to project - you are free to do it. =)As for information I posted here I got from google and another bitcoin forum member. If he wants me to disclose his nickname - I can do it. That's been said - this info do not identify exact physical person, so I do not believe bounty should be paid anyway =) SunAvatar, I really appreciate the fact you want to share this and help! I already found thief email and tried to contact him and convince him to return money. He did not respond. And bitcoin non-reversible nature is not helping here too =)) His nickname - mikerka - is pretty uniq one and he is registered over a lot of hacking-related websites. His email is mikerka@gmail.com . He is registered at Minecraft. There is a secondlife avatar named mikerka Cluny who bought some coins from another bitcoin forum member recently. His IRC and otc-wot nick is FaktioNN. Keeping in mind bitcoin community size and uniqueness of nickname I am pretty sure all of this is the same person. I think I seen somewhere age of someone with nickname mikerka of 41 years, but not sure about this part at all.There is also another guy from CZ, but he too young and looks like not involved in coding/hacking at all, and there is another gal from russia, who is fan of stupid tv show - i doubt she do any hacking. So I believe our mikerka is from USA.I doubt these bitcoins make any real difference to him in long run, but he did not agreed to return these in exchange for all due respect for finding hole in my software (really dumb one btw =)). On the other hand this will force me to put more time in to this project and at some point start monetizing it. Either through rake or some sort of sign up fee. =)  probably because i was concentrated on more important things? =)you can always check http://twitter.com/betcoin for now. It spams this channel with current statistics on online users. You do not need to be registered with twitter for this. added 4 omaha8 low stakes nl tables. have no clue if these works correctly tho.. and if something comes to your mind for name for the table - let me know to =) i have shut old server completely to make sure nothing is messed up. so there is no web server to do redirect...anyway, it's already runs on new server. I am keeping an eye on it and finish moving other stuff, but it should be playable now. (i hope so =)). So let me know how it works for you. New server was finally shipped and I started to work on moving everything to new place. Expect 3-4 days of down time. Thank you in advance for your patience. Your payment is processed. If someone did not receive their payments - please email me, but I think all others are withdraw money without problems already. I am traveling. I closed breach using phone. Passwords to everything else is at home. This is not a commercial project. I hope it will be sometimes tho...This just a test. I passed it in terms of saving users money. Will see how importa.t this project is for every one here tho. Will keep an eye on donations address. Boarding on aircraft. Will be back soon and proceed all wizdraw requests. I already wrote answer to email and will repeat here for everybody else.I keep small amount of bitcoins on server for security. When there is no enough money on server I process transactions manually. In this case you withdraw more then available balance on server. I am traveling right now and will be back home in 24 hours.On  the other hand I am traveling and significant amount of money were deposited. I just found someone with nickname mikerka found security hole in withdrawal code in successfully withdraw all money from the poker room to addresses:1LdLEx6UhJfqDk3umY7xP6xU1geB6bvhyw15FKrowdeAuuYchV2rmuWfUTuSgVRDwtQS1GiPbAgjueb9N4mC9eY9ivSQohUvPK2P3F1NS3PXX3TAwfbWD5go96jG9c6J35zCPSxd1Ghkvw73yxHW4XHRYHq8MbfijfB28tqc471DUMMNpN7UMLmMfM71iFAoQFkdXaShQqx21FYMxvf5ZQtQNsXhSaAPLvELVYezfyyCKH1fzyhsVGCPZsKutiT1XWpurZQuAL5r1N7 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 already fixed this hole. Now, if mikerka reading this I will really appreciate if you return money.Withdrawn amount is 680 BTC.2everybody else - i have enough reserve to cover this issue. So your balances are good. But any donations will be really appreciated.
Please posst all requests to issues on project page. For example heads up mode button issue alredy there. client have issues with concurrent requests to server - it do not resend packet if previous did not went through. this leads to break in workflow. Therefore right now the only way to mitigate this right now - make connection to server as fast as possible and make server operate as fast as possible. This is not a correct solution, since bug should be fixed in first place, but I just do not have time for this even if I had incentive to fix it.if you are using tor or proxies - connecting directly should help a lot.i am going to migrate server to another more powerful one in the end of april.  this, and you posted this post after 20 minutes after your email =) email answered please ask them to write email to pavel@yepcorp.com with details. I've seen this in the past and I need to track it down. dedicated please post all feature requests to https://github.com/hippich/Bitcoin-Poker-Room/issues - this will make it way easier to track all of them. as well as all bugs =)2all struggling with freezes - i think i will order new server this week and start migrating all sites. it may take a while (i am using this server for hosting all of my projects. New server will have SSD drive as well as more memory. this will definitely help with response time. (this will not remove freezing bug completely, since this is bug in client, but it should happen less often with faster server)  this is temporal solution and i will look in to it after while to see exactly if it bring anything to the project or not. if it will bring more players i definitely do not care about feedback from users who are not players. (sorry, but this is true =))  you are free to blacklist this account, setup filters in your client. whatever. i do not care. the only thing i care - to have players when someone come to the room. well.. who knows. sometimes something seemingly hard just matter of two lines of code =)) (and vice versa =)) from my experience, this statement is not correct =) it could be just my experience, but since I am doing this project, I will do it accordingly to my experience. but since this is open source project too, you are always welcome to submit patches! or even fork it off github and start your own! =) the point of these tweets - to give immediate update if someone joined room. so it do not make sense to post "summary" once per day.I understand your frustration and once there will be enough users all the time, so random visitors will not stare at empty tables - i will remove these tweets completely. thank you for all suggestions. but this thing do not gives me any profits and the only real bug I may be willing to try to fix is occasion freezes of the table over slow connection. rest of "must have" features or less major bugs - only if this project will ever take off. removed hash tags =) it was 1% before. but it did not have cap. other players were very angry =) so I put donation btc addresses. If someone feels this project is worth of effort or you just won huge pot - just tip a bit to the project. =) well.. i decided to work a bit on room. there were few annoying admin bugs and I added twitter notification feature. Now every 5 minutes it checks if there are any players and if they are - post notification to http://twitter.com/betcoin Follow it to know exactly when someone is in room and join 'em! well.. i decided to work a bit on room. there were few annoying admin bugs and I added twitter notification feature. Now every 5 minutes it checks if there are any players and if they are - post notification to http://twitter.com/betcoin Follow it to know exactly when someone is in room and join 'em! lowest blinds are 0.01/0.02 the only way to fill room is to schedule game. at least, for now. 400% is not that impressive? That's ALOT!! That's why I do not believe it's possible. But I will keep an eye on chris's blog for sure (and for free =))
again do not make any sense. make money from ads when you can do 400% annual. get credit card, withdraw from atm up to limit and invest these money into market. you will be able to return loaned money in 3 months. does not make sense. take a loan and use it if you are so sure about 400% annual return. chocodum, please take a look at my job ad - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4311.0 While Vasiliev paid first so I really could not test his word, but he paid fast and transaction went smooth! What exactly you expected? =) Since there is no other parties - you won =) and movie is pretty funny too =)) http://blockexplorer.com/tx/272181cc644f409d1a520236d2faf55f5d6cecfa7542fa96d7e9e2b666f47413#o02ALL. This experiment seems to fail, so I close this contest. I can sell. contact me at pavel@yepcorp.com I believe at this point any serious bitcoin user will not be afraid of new technologies. And only people who are not going to do real business will not use OpenID.. So bitcoin2cash did not loose anything =)) finally! someone else won this contest =))Here we go - http://blockexplorer.com/address/16sftJzWwpSuJUQTSErYadMvGwWmNsqqDt i was afraid someone will say that, but when I saw his submissions I felt like "yeah, that's it!". =))) While not funny, but video posted by mewantsbitcoins (again!! wtf) won... Probably, he just read my mind =)http://blockexplorer.com/tx/52aef2c02eb047432a1bcded4abf985eedbf4ff9647b9fc4b39810f922a0e593#o0But I must note that both "You don't say 'no' to a horny woman" and the one with dogs were really funny too. ps: I am using win video for the "video of the day" on my site http://orgasms.org .  mewantsbitcoins, it's too expensive =) Whenever I run bots, someone find this and start slowly grab coins from them. Having no income from this project, spending hundreds on supporting bots is way too expensive at current exchange rate. rose, sorry. I can not accept your level of proficiency. I want to hire someone for this because I can't write well myself, not 'cos I want to do proof reading. rose, i already saw this post somewhere... what the point posting in here? Google already indexed it and I can't use these articles on my site anymore. Plus - they are too short and have really poor quality - all these weird spaces and punctuation... If this is just a sample, please make each article 300-400 words size, fix all these weird spaces and send this to my email. There we will discuss it further.If you really wish to write articles, please contact me on email - pavel@yepcorp.com.  for some time i was keeping bots sittings in the room. they spent few hundreds of my money but did not brought a lot of users. except ones, who realized these are bots and are easy to beat.Tournaments - it's just another "perk". It's already very easy to enter game on Instis table. you need just 1 bitcoin to sit there. к слову на внутреннюю почту они отреагировали. но в духе "мы ничего не знаем". =) well. i do not believe slider bar is snow stopper for people who wants to play poker with bitcoins, but rather here almost no gamers =). If this thing ever take off, I promise I will work on every bit of it. But right now my minimal viable product proved thatbitcoin community do not need poker room at this point in time )) well.. except for PR purposes where my poker room works pretty well ) Something about: how to draw logo, how to create theme for wordpress, review commercial themes, css techniques. Basically anything about web building in form of tutorials. Well.. I would like to give first place to mewantsbitcoins. Here is it - http://blockexplorer.com/tx/6a0719ead7aa1f610e19f4e2703c1bbe603b0f5c01d9bc9983c43bced1dd6fe2#o1But I must say - I liked some other video clip from this round. So feel free to re-post it for the next round! do not forget to include BTC address with your submission!
To make it easier - I will accept any sex-related video clip. It could be funny, arousing, educational, but strictly safe for work. I.e. no actual nudity.  Yeah. What's wrong with it? Just 4 entries... Only 3 hours left! Why this is here? =) Most of these topics are about sites I have. Not sure why you think these are popular science =)Depending on what exactly you mean by "emotional category" it probably will fit #1 and #5 from my list. If you will be able to provide sample - I will let you know for sure if it fits these or no. eh.. lost 2 bitcoins... ) but thanks anyway for the game! me too )) yeah. only orgasms. sorry =) You won! http://blockexplorer.com/address/1gNTtzvv17wFgC2nd7b6BWFx1QXZ2XDsXNew round started! Hm.. I see.. Upping daily prize to 5 BTC =) [contest is closed]Ok. Here is rules:1) You find public available video clip on sites like youtube.com, blip.tv, vimeo.com, etc about sex. This should be SFW video clip. I.e. all porno tube like sites are not accepted at all. I am looking to something like this - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z4jYGthGS8g . I.e. video could be funny, arousing, educational but still safe for work.2) You submit link to this video clip here with you btc address3) Next day I select best one from all submitted video clip during previous day and pay for it 5 BTC to one, who first posted it.4) You can post as many links to video clip as many as you want but only one link in one post5) You can reuse video clips links which did not win during previous rounds. For convenience I will post all won links in first post.6) I am using forum's timezone.7) No matter how many or how boring/cool submissions are I will award one prize each round!Won video clips:1) 5 BTC to mewantsbitcoins for http://www.funnyordie.com/videos/fab00f7be0/one-hour-orgasm-from-dkent2) 5 BTC to mewantsbitcoins for http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/video/2009/apr/08/durex-ad3) 5 BTC to mewantsbitcoins for http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TnSedIz2vlQ4) 5 BTC to chmod755 for http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOFTQpNhsWE5) 5 BTC to Hatchetfox for http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZItsbLzc73sps: I am using win video for the "video of the day" on my site http://orgasms.org . Thanks for interest, epii. You are always welcome. If you can provide topic lists you can write on, I probably can find project for it as well. Отписал им во внутренней почте. Посмотрим отреагируют ли там. nanaimogold, no. it was not resolved. hope this is just matter of communication. I will register account on their website and try to contact them with their own messaging system. They are safe as long as you have no problem related to their service. and if there will be problem (and it can be not just bidding pond) - you will be screwed. Do NOT use mybitcoin service - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4489.0Plus - they were removed from wiki trade page as well. Please take a look at my post here - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4311.0 Agreed. Describing mining process in general is good. So people understand that it's hard, expensive and not easy to mine coins. But technical details with pools and etc - probably should go away. This is long standing bug somewhere deep in libraries I am using but not written by myself. Since there is almost no public interest and no profit for me in this project, I am too lazy to find it and fix it.. Temporary fix for this - just click F5 in the table window.  I also believe there is no need to put articles about mining on sites like this. We already have bunch of kids, who were so disappointed after running their cpu miner for 2 weeks and not getting a single block. Plus - people do not believe that system allowing members to generate money is reliable. I would suggest to concentrate on easiness of money transfer (it's really easy comparing to other payment systems!), explain more how to get coin (beside mining), etc. 
depends on time =) i will be able to join game around 10pm GMT-5  What will happen if laptop is lost in transit and B do not believe A really sent it? =)) 6) Car maintenance, repairs7) Travel in Europe, anything about different places in Europe Any website tutorials, how-tos, etc.9) Halloween 3) (Russian) Статьи про тюнинг автомобилей, ремонт и т.п. железные вопросы. Для turboborisov.com4) Articles on accounting and payroll topic5) Gifts and gift giving - for http://gifti.us Haha, fair enough. =) Anyway, I am open to both opportunities and my offer to pay for writing articles is still stands. kiba, i never seen part 2 of your story. why? =)and yes. for seo purposes.  will see. already got rma form from XION and going to send them it for replacement. atleast there is 1 year warranty and for 1 year they will keep sending me new unit if there is problem with it =) If account have 0 posts it also can be bought if forum software allows to show signature on profile page (like here - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=739). Price for this type of accounts - 0.001 BTC Will buy your old forum accounts.Criteria:- forum should support signatures and links in them without "nofollow"- this should be popular forums software like phpbb, smf, etc.- you have to have at least 10 postsI will pay 0.001 BTC for each post under account.I will change email and password immediately.If account have 0 posts it also can be bought if forum software allows to show signature on profile page (like here - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=739). Price for this type of accounts - 0.001 BTCInterested? - email me at pavel@yepcorp.com hm. my bad. always had an impression that you have to have "bank" in the name of your corporation to obtain banking license and without banking license you can't obtain swift. either you can obtain swift with this financial corporation or you can obtain banking license without "bank" in name..  NZ financial corporation are not banks. And can't be assigned SWIFT code. Basically, you need to incorporate with license for financial operations. That's it. походу это ещё один троль из компании Belresa =) I can sell you wmz for your btc. email at pavel@yepcorp.com hacker news post - http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2358118 ну это выйдет тогда какая-то "сейфовая ячейка" для кошелька скорее. в данной ситуации биткоин клиент всеравно нужен.у mybitcoin.com цели были другие - сделать онлайн кошелек. что-то вроде webmoney light. легко открыть и пополнить и потратить. и все из браузера. вот и я о том. на суммах в 1к-10к - нормально. На меньшие - врядли. зато на 100к - ваще отлично =) я давно думал замутить нечто подобное и с русским интрефейсом. вопрос что захочет публика больше:- секюрное хранилище их собственных ключей (эдакий удаленный биткоин.ехе)- просто счета с цифрами как это сейчас сделано на майбиткоин.ком- абстракные единицы подкрепленные биткоинами. т.е. как вмз подкреплены (?) баксами в банке.Первый вариант - даже близко не знаю как реализовать без доступа оператора (меня) к приватным ключам... А если оператор будет иметь к ним доступ - слабовато верится, что кто-то захочет так полагаться на непонятно кого, тем более если этот кто-то будет совершенно анонимен (а я если займусь этим, будут делать это совершенно анонимно).Вариант 2 и 3 более понятны и привычны - тут вопросов нету.Идеи?  только того, кто в штатах создаст фирму по их печатанию и удет обеспечивать эту бумагу биткоинами =)кстати.. либерти доллар вроде как лет 10 существовал. =) Я могу быть приемной и отправляющей стороной для банковских переводов. Хочу столько:- За прием платежа - 20 баков.- За отправку платежа - 80 баков.Ну или по курсу =)От суммы почти не зависит.Банк на кипре, компания - на сейшелах. Твоим клиентам можно спать совершенно спокойно. =)Встраивай =) Not sure which method Slush's pool uses, but there if you submit few shares and then leave pool, your profit will be almost 0 by the end of the round. So it looks very similar to solution to the problem you describe here.
Ha-ha-ha. You should be named "Fed", not "Dai" =))) Haha.. Yeah.. ))) But I will save some money not going to restaurant where I will spend more then 30 btc for sure )) Thank you guys! I plan to spent quite fun weekend evenings =) I never had graphics like this in my life and the only reason I bough 2x5970 - to generate bitcoins.But since I am already here, can someone recommend some very cool 3D game which will use these two cards in full? I prefere HitMan-like games, but anything looking cool should be great =) I've used this one for a while without any gotchas. Today I repacked both cards (had issue with VDDC temps due my waterblock design) and started it at 950/1.25vIt worked for may be 20 minutes and then turned off.. 2 seconds later - two big sparks and loud clicks. PSU is dead. Plugged in old 1000W PSU - everything works fineSo this PSU probably is good for stock clocks or light load under overclock (like playing some games). But definitely will not hold up against bitcoin miner =)) пока наиболее актуальный будет п2п обменник. Я уже меняю биткоины на брб и обратно =) думать над реальной проблемой (законы и себестоимость финансовых операций), а не над технической частью (которая хоть и требует усилий, но довольно прамолинейна). this service is not for advertising, but for link building. these context link could be styled to match plain text (since only SEs need to see these) and should not disturb reader in this case. в обменниках основная сложность с законодательством. а реальные деньги, которые бменник должен менять на биткоины, можно отследить. и поэтому попасть под это законодательство. варианты с оффшорными банковскими счетами - дорого. а обменник должен быть дешевый и не трекаемые =) Thank you for interest.Currently API will be done through JSON, but local libraries should be developed in the long run for easy integration with service. Question is - what technology people uses to power up their websites? I assume most popular will be PHP, but want to check it. http://Trade-Web.com/  is a marketplace to buy and sell context links for SEO purposes.What our service can offer for Sellers who want to monetize their websites/blogs:- We buy links embedded into your website text content - so-called "context links". If you are a blog owner - we replace certain phrases found in your posts with links containing the same anchor text as the original phrase linked to buyer's website.- Add as many websites to sell links from as you want.- We buy these links at 5% discount from You and sell at the retail price that You set up plus a convenience fee to buyers.- Convenient payments in Bitcoins.What our service can offer to Buyers who want to promote their website in Search Engines like Google, Yahoo, Bing, etc:- No contracts. You will be charged only for what you actually use.- You pay just 5% convenience fee for using this service.- You can search for specific phrase(s) you would like to link to your website and rent these from us.- We keep track of all the links that your rent. If any source website removes a link or becomes unreachable we immediately stop charging rent for this link.- You can rent a link for any amount of time and can stop renting it anytime.- Accept major credit cards and Bitcoins. reddit, только с оплатой за каждый голос или комент. I do much more simpler and serious offer. I accept bitcoins in my online store at the rate of $2.00 = 1BTC. Bitcoins do not worth anything without products and services behind them. Ying. What do you know about bitcoins? How much bitcoins you have? В связи с падением курса, принимаю биткоины по курсу 2200 брб - 1 биткоин agree Yes. Car tires. This is rewrite, so no - no credits to rewriter. this is pure seo work. better question - whom stands behind mybitcoin service... and how you can trust them. still no answer from mybitcoin guys =/  Take a look - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4311.0
hm.. apparently, bitcoins became popular in china  Мне нужны писатели на русском для моего сайта. Тематика - авто и тюнинг. =) Цена - 4 биткоина за 1000 слов. Кроме оригинальных работ допускается и переписывание новостей, статей.если интересно - пиши на pavel@yepcorp.com I used their gateway and they showed me this address once I entered captcha. I believe they use one address per one payment for identification purposes. To make it clear - support  from biddingpond was very prompt. (edited header, to make sure there is no misunderstandings). And no need for reimburse or something like this - this is my fault.But still question about credibility of someone who stands behind MyBitcoin.com. As I understand there is no even user on this forum registered who is connected with mybitcoin.com. So trust for mybitcoin service is very and very questionable. This can backfire, since for all new members mybitcoin.com is offered as easy and trustly service to store their coins... Ok. So I went through block chain and found "final recipient" address with a lot of transactions http://blockexplorer.com/address/1PWQqkQMvZgNzk81hv46bxFuqkmMErMbbx . Not sure if this is mybitcoin address, or biddingpond or someones else. Do anyone have this address in their address book may be? From this http://blockexplorer.com/address/1FcPBRy8JY5tTbG39hDHkubqTU82kN28cv I can see that money was received and then sent somewhere else... I sent email to mybitcoin guys 5 days ago. That's a reason for this post. Somewhat similar issue. Any clue whom contact with this? https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=4489.0 Update 3/31/2011Resolved issue by creating throw away account at mybitcoin.com and contacting support via their internal messaging system. Their email did not work so far. So if you need to contact them, best chances is to contact through their internal messaging system.Original:=======================================================I decided to try BiddingPond once and won some item. Proceed to payment page and clicked "Pay with MyBitcoin" button. Followed instructions on MyBitcoin.com gateway to pay for item and after successful payment got 404 Error on biddingpond website.Payment was lost and then I found that there is "NOT WORK YET" across MyBitcoin pay button on biddingpond.com website. Yes, I agree - this is my fault, but this is something that could be easily fixed, since there should be tracks of this payment.So to fix this issue and finally pay seller I wrote to biddingpond.com support. They told me they did not receive payment at all and contacted MyBitcoin.com for transaction reversal. No answer for several days. I wrote directly to MyBitcoin.com with the same question and info - no response so far.here is log of transaction from my side:pavel@MS-7593:~/miners/poclbm$ bitcoind sendtoaddress 1FcPBRy8JY5tTbG39hDHkubqTU82kN28cv 124296cda25f6a009c1fe0087578b4ff6b558e7a8442da11e63488d73a4a2f9ec6So my questions is - who is the owner of MyBitcoin.com. So far I was not able to find out who is behind this service, but for some reason a lot of merchants and users feel safe about it.And I believe biddingpond.com stuff should remove all non working functions from their website leading to lost payments too. sent an email no. it's too dangerous for service provider to accept paypal. and accepting paypal from unverified accounts even worse. If someone going to regularly supply new articles for my websites, I will be glad to provide editorial access to post articles with associated images as well as referral links for additional 5 BTC per 1000 words. you are always welcome then. i put only two restrictions:1) article should pass copyscape.com as unique2) should not be posted in any other places except my website. This is due google ranking mechanism - it can ban my website if decides I am copying someones content.  email sent. This is for a website. Is there any difference? got one today. everything as advertised! =) some people generate them. look into Mining section to find out how.some people buy them with cash/bank transfer.some people sell stuff for bitcoins. you can get current vdc voltage by 'aticonfig --pplib-cmd "get activity"'. But the vrm temps is still a question for me. need to install windows to see if my card report vrm temps at all tho.. mine is  5970 from alienware dell desktop. but they are produced not by Dell, but some other company. not sure which one =( already PMed him and no response. probably, not interested =)
this gives cores temps. but I need VDDC temps. it's possible to see it from Windows GPU-Z, so it should be available, question - how to get access to it from linux. May be someone knowledgeable here who know how to read VDDC temps under linux for ati cards? И все же это реклама товара в первую очередь =) installed and logged in =)although, find ubuntuone much more appealing due to canonical's integration into gnome desktop =) ah. no prob =) my mobo and cpu will say "thank you" then =) less heat inside box.. Just got these fans todays in the mailbox. Feels very close to ones I have installed - http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=250749357644&ssPageName=STRK:MEWNX:IT . So yeah, I would say 70-90 cfms. So if you are interested - let me know. Otherwise I will install them into case and slowdown them =) registered. email - pavel@yepcorp.com 1PwPcsCQCFrFZynbSPM5nQ1xbBfmMsrsjH yes. i am from austin. yes, my english is terrible (you should be glad you did not hear me =)), and yes, i am immigrant =) Currently need essays/rewritten articles on following topics:1) sexual life (not porn, closer to essays from cosmopolitan/men's health)2) Tire reviews (will provide source articles - need rewrite)3) (Russian) Статьи про тюнинг автомобилей, ремонт и т.п. железные вопросы. Для turboborisov.com4) Articles on accounting and payroll topic5) Gifts and gift giving - for http://gifti.us6) Car maintenance, repairs7) Travel in Europe, anything about different places in Europe Any website tutorials, how-tos, etc.9) Halloweenmore sites to come.- 1000 words - 2 BTC.- i am looking for 300-400 words size for articles- i should not be able to find your article through Google. - before starting to work - please submit sample to my email - pavel@yepcorp.com- if someone going to regularly supply new articles for my websites, I will be glad to provide editorial access to post articles with associated images for additional 2 BTC per 1000 words. have no clue. but i know these are 30db. once they arrive, i can connect to side by side with ones i bought locally and know how much cfm they put and then let you know it. =)also, i will contact ebay seller, but i am pretty sure he do not know it, since he did not posted this. I live in Austin =) So if you are interested - let me know.  I will get 4 from china soon, but I do not need them anymore. Will sell all 4 for 12 BTC + actual shipping. email me at pavel@yepcorp.com if interested. had same problem (have micro atx mobo and case). installed water cooling system - no problems so far ) well.. there is no python implementation. there is only interface to wallet database. it would be nice to have python library for communitcation with p2p network. (although, I do not like python nor going to use it for this =)) why nvidia? why not 8x5970? Just for someone like me who do not look into Dev subforum here - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4236.0short version - one of Google employee used his 20% time to write Java library to connect to bitcoin p2p network, send and receive coins.  new bitcoin-like currency can emerge only in some niche area. look at social websites as example - it's very easy and straightforward model, but there is only very few ones available and being used a lot. others - are either not used at all, or are niche social networks. bitcoins - it's about people who uses it. bitcoin protocol is just a protocol. so correct questions will be: will another group of enthusiast emerge in near feature. I would say - no. Probably, only some very-very niche group. нет. просто ещё один канал продаж скорее =)  не мое. просто нашел - http://baraholka.onliner.by/viewtopic.php?p=27616259 well... not to mention that when i see 11.9 on 12v rail (which is bad - amperage is getting higher with lower voltage - things know to burn from low voltage if there is no protection), I was getting 2.27 on 3.33v rail =)
troll =))) on my current PSU (1000w rated =)) I am getting 11.9 when pushing GPUs. So it will be upgrade anyway. Already ordered and looking forward to try it. I will need article rewrite service. 1000 words article - 5 BTC. Topic - car tires reviews. Sorry, no authorship and need to pass CopyScape (duplicate text search engine). If interested - contact me at pavel@yepcorp.com wow. sc8nt4u, nice find! I think I go for it! can't beet this price =) i'd say remove windows (zip) option. just offer it on some separate download page. Any clue on how much shipping to Austin, TX may cost? =) nVidia P73 AGP video card from Dell Desktop - http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=300533559525&ssPageName=STRK:MESELX:IT#ht_1258wt_1141Kingston 1GB (2x512Mb) DDR P2700 333Mhz Desktop Memory - http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=300533562670&ssPageName=STRK:MESELX:IT#ht_1258wt_1141 то что произошло в беларуси в 2009 году - только ещё один повод переводить свои сбережения в альтернативные беларускому фантику валюты =) я более чем уверен, что биткоинов реальная цена 1 бакс. (у мну свои мысли на эту тему). Поэтому мое предложение актуально. i7-950 - no OC. 2x 5970 with heavy OC. the rest is minimal. probably only wc pump matters - 18W. have two $20. will sell each for 22 bitcoins The reason of 120 BTC mark - I already found good supply for this money and about to buy one. But if someone can do same or better deal for bitcoins - I'd better go with bitcoins.As for efficiency - I mean amount of declared wattage on 12v rail. not efficiency. I do not care about environment =)) Yeah. If you are from Austin - pickup is free =) http://austin.craigslist.org/sys/2249416845.html - 80 BTChttp://austin.craigslist.org/sys/2249414181.html - 80 BTCMoBo is micro atx and have two PCI-e 16x ports.PSU provides 800W on 12v rail. This allowed me to power up two 5970 and water cooling system. But I was not able to overclock more then 850 Mhz. While powering only one card I could push it to 950 Mhz without problems. So this is ideal for one 5970 overclocked rig or for lighter GPUs, like 5870 in crossfire with overclocking.Shipping with in USA ~10BTC for each. International - please msg me. Subject. It should put at least 95% at 12v rails. Max price for new one - 120 BTC shipped to USA. дык уже можно купить пылесос, который сам полисосит когда хозяина нету и сам зяряжается. и стоит это 250 баксов. думаю, до "добро утро" осталось совсем ерунда =))  actually, i found you can use RBE tool under wine and create usb boot disk with freedos to use dos atiflash tool. no windows required. Думаю, это не возможно =) Не светите и не светимы будете =) смотри последний пост =) безовсяких процентов - 2600 бруб =) Есть возможность платить за телефон, сотовики, жкх быстро - 15 минут если я в онлайне.Курс 1 биткойн = 2600 брб.
Пополню вам баланс за 2600 руб = 1 биткоин =)Деньги дойдут за 15 минут с момента отправки. Главное чтобы я в онлайн был. я тоже меняю. курс mtgox + 5% =) WMZ/WMR/BRB/USD/Wire =) Any idea how to change voltage on these cards? AMDOverdriveCtrl tool do not allow to set it higher 1.05V  Actually, I am doing it every week and this is really easy. Just pack everything good (since it long distance and package will be beaten) and go to post office. It will cost about 30 bucks for something under 1 pound and then ~ $5 for each additional pound. One "pain" - to fill customs declaration where you need to fill ~ 10 fields, like your name/address, their name/address, list content and how much it costs, date and signature.That's it =) текущая база состоит из примерно 110к блоков. один блок генерируется раз в 10 минут.  можно подробнее про этот логгинг? ссылочки мот есть какие почитать? I mean I offer you MY $13.17 paypal for YOUR 13.17 BTC =) If this is not correct - I am sorry =) Otherwise email me at pavel@yepcorp.com can send you $13.17 right now. http://ubitio.us - можеш автоматизировать продажи i have small mobo and case.. so I am already ordered two water blocks for 5970 and in the process of hunting for the rest of wc system. I would say, my system is VERY noisy with stock air coolers. I am looking to use it not just for mining, but for regular use, so this is an issue for me. I can sell 1k of BTC for 1.2k of USD. If this is interesting - email me at pavel@yepcorp.com 5 BTC + actual shipping. email me if interested - pavel@yepcorp.com Yeah! Via USPS First Class. Price almost the same as with in USA (but slowly of course)as for bitcoinme.com - thank you. good idea! thank you for feedback. will fix it. i had exception for https://bitcoin.org and it worked well for me, but yeah - this domain uses some custom certificate, so I will open it in plain http:// Added manual bitcoin payment option. So now you can create actual order and mark it as bitcoin-payable. Then I will send you address to pay to bitcoins and once they are in - your order will be processed.still a lot of manual work.. next is custom currency - BTC and if I will start receiving orders with it - creating payment module. There is no coins. There are records, which declare how much "coins" is assigned to which address. So there is no new or old coins but there is new or old blocks containing transactions of these "coins". Probably, coins assigned to block generated a while ago is more trustworthy then the one generated 10 mins ago just because you have more confirmations for older transaction. But currently you can't select which coins to send, so it do not matter anyway =) sure depends on what you order, but usually about 10 bucks +- $5 per order =) And if actual shipping charges are less then estimated - I always will be glad to refund difference.You can get estimate by adding something into cart and proceed to checkout. Enter you shipping address and it will show you price of ups ground shipping.  yep =) I believe 1 BTC should cost 2 USD (well... right now, and in future - much more!).Since I believe in this, anyone willing to buy anything in my Personalized Gifts Store will get this exchange rate no matter of current exchange rate at mtgox.com or similar exchangers.
http://challenge.documentfoundation.org/Probably someone can contact them and check if they are willing to setup bitcoin wallet for this purpose. I personally give them 10 BTC for sure.  Могу пополнить телефон в РБ за биткоины. 3000 брб = 1 монета. Vote! - http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2232922 Mojno i perevodom na moy schet. No tolko eto dorogo i dlya sum v 1k ne podhodit. vot 10k - uje blije. Esli nada budet - toje smogu pomoch. ya mogu prodat za wmz. kurs - mtgox + 5% меняю в обе стороны беларуские рубли в минске или борисове. пиши на pavel@yepcorp.com Looks really nice! btw, i am doing drupal development for living, but at this exchange rate i will charge 50 btc per hour. ) pros: if i agreed to do something - i will do it fast and in time as agreed =) I have 15 USD in moneybookers for your 15 BTC. willing to trade? email me at pavel@yepcorp.com Not sure what is swag )) I am not native, but I have http://store.gifti.us - where you can order different stuff with customized writing on it. Right now all bitcoin transactions are manual, since so far I did not have any orders with BTC, but if it will take off - I will consider creating bitcoin payment plugin for Magenta. BTW, I got already about 8 bitcoins from this and video uploads in another thread. So it looks like it makes sense to force uploader to pay upfront. This should avoid some scammers =) Or atleast, scammers will pay my bill for service =) Actually, filesize is close to real dump =) But this lead me to think about implementing similar "thumbnail" feature for archives, but instead showing archive structure.  gotov kupit, no:1) malenkimi porciyami ili ti perevodish perviy.2) po cene v 0.5 WMZ per 1 BTC =)esli vdrug interesno, moya icq 272570773 I have a question - I thought about implementing API for uploads. Is anyone interested? If so - please PM me for discussion about actual implementation.  I am working on the bitcoin photostock website where photographers can sell their work and designers can buy royalty-free photos for bitcoins. If someone is interested, please email me at pavel@yepcorp.com so I will add you to beta-testers list. If you are interested in obtaining photographer account - please send at least 5 samples of work you are going to sell. I have $40 in amazon gift cards. It's not physical through. Let me know if you are interested at pavel@yepcorp.com you can continue to work on mine as agreed =) что-то там намешнанно... так сколько "жертв" в итоге? просто если это 1-2 -- то просто кто-то им трояны подсунул, пароль подобрал или снифнул траффик. Если массово - то да, жесть ) Ok. Same thing this time - only one download. =) Anyway, thank you everyone who participated in these two games =) And if someone who downloaded this file read this - please post that you downloaded it =)Here is appropriate address - http://blockexplorer.com/address/1KPp7m7tDHe5k5XgpY9mQZsUZBFEccChHE Okey. Another try - http://bit.ly/gAb9Mh This time this wallet.dat have only 1 BTC, but download price is just 50 bitcents! =) As usual - you do not know if you are first or not, so this is lottery. PS: And please, do not leave any feedback at all for at least 24 hours to not disturb the game =)
Okey. Another try - http://bit.ly/gAb9Mh This time this wallet.dat have only 1 BTC, but download price is just 50 bitcents! =)PS: And please, do not leave any feedback at all for at least 24 hours to not disturb the game =) well.. i must say my experiment failed )) only one downloaded wallet.dat file so far and I believe this is mpkomara. if this is you please confirm. Next time I will do lottery for much smaller amount of money, so people be more willing to shell out coins =) Well.. I hope I have some trust so far =) But really - this is promo game for my ubitio.us, not a way to scam someone for 20 btcs =) to make it more interesting - please do not tell if you will download it =) http://bit.ly/fq5qqk I've uploaded wallet.dat with 50 BTC in it. But you can't know if you are first who downloads this file... The only way to find this out - pay 20 BTC to download wallet.dat Anyone interested? =) Если кто из Беларуси и ему нада купить/продать биткоины за наличку - пишите. Небольшие объемы смогу организовать. Курс mtgox + 5 процентов комиссионные.Есть возможность платить за телефон, сотовики, жкх быстро - 15 минут если я в онлайне.Курс 1 биткойн = 2200 брб. Also, if you are willing to learn Perl I might consider your service to help on ubitio.us =) There is one particular feature I want to implement which will require building separate module which later planned to release to cpan.org.  Atlas, same question =) have few sites I need original content for. pavel@yepcorp.com Finally I done changes I wanted to do for a long time =)http://ubitio.us/file/download/1Changes:- Thumbnails automatically generated for pictures and movies- Ability to "invest" random amount into file. Price of file download will be equal to "invested" amount- Uploader get 70% share of all payments- Expiration window is set to 1 week. If someone downloaded file - file expiration date automatically extended to 1 week.Testing and comments are very welcome =) This domain was created in January 1st, 2011. Do not have cashy words in it's name and have no value at all. you should not expect any offers, except low baiting like genjix's one =)) Got one from PayPal as a bonus. Would like to exchange for bitcoins. I will provide number only (will not ship actual card). Can send photo of card as well.Please, give me your offers. That's cool. That means I understood right this unlicensed "license" =) So I will do this at some point (if no one will do it before, 'cos I am a way slow... true programmer =))Yeah. We can debate a lot about how it's right to write code, but most important - to keep same style in every bit of project, especially when you deal with such big project as Drupal. For example, wordpress do not have so strict rules and as a result - there is tons of low quality, non maintained code. And often same functionality done slightly differently by different plugins. Anyway, this was just a bit of support of drupal-way dealing with contributed code. =) ubercart.org site's contribution part is not good place. It do not have versioning control, it do not integrate with Drupal's update subsystem (read - no way to autoupdate module through drush), etc. The only good place to put module if we are serious about it is Drupal.org. they still use CVS for developing drupal and all extensions. There are talks about moving everything into GIT, but that's tons of work and can't be done really easily. All infrastructure built about CVS right now and it will take some time to rewrite code to use GIT. Hm.. Drupal coding standards are not hideous at all. As I understand, this code is public domain and I can take it, reformat or do anything to be accepted in drupal.org and put it under GPLv2+? If so I might consider to fork it and post it under my account. But for you to become co-maintainer you still need to apply for a CVS account on drupal.org. Can I offer 9000 WMR? And who will be securing transaction? email me if interested at pavel@yepcorp.com Or: ϭ Hey! One thing anoying me with ฿ - is the fact it's for right2left text and browsers behaive funky with it )I am looking through http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unicode_charactersWhat's about - ઘ? что-то не так =)Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; ru; rv:1.9.2.9) Gecko/20100825 Ubuntu/9.10 (karmic) AlexaToolbar/alxf-1.54 Firefox/3.6.9 WebMoney AdvisorEDIT: уупс. я тока после поста посмотрел и увидел что адвайзор есть под линух... мот они уже и киппер классик под линух таки выпустили?? it will take some (long) time to get to rapidshare level for both ubitious and bitcoinservice =)
[teaser] More features will come on ubitio.us, including setting price and something else.. But core features like anonymous uploads/downloads, pay to upload and expiration will be there for sure. [/teaser]  BTW, I am doing Drupal development for living, so if any1 have something to help with - let me know. My rate is $50/hr, but if you need to do something quick and fast - I can save your money for sure. (Probably, hiring me to do html markup with such rate is not a good idea =))Also I am doing Perl development, but not for living. Same about ubuntu/debian servers admins. If you need help with something - let me know. My email is pavel@yepcorp.com Ah. Nice! Will keep an eye on your project for sure =)) he-he.  I missed something.. Where I can learn more about bencoder's site? mm.. probably, depends on type of work too =)) Not handdrawn, but nice! =) (not very safe for work =)) where i can find copyfree artists? is there some place? hands definitely need more work =) Mmm.. Yeah. This could make sense. I need to check how much I am paying for a file per day + upload (once). I need to find balance - from one side I am paying upload fee every time I am uploading something to amazon, on the other hand I do not want to have bunch of stalled files in amazon, since I am paying for their hosting too. So I think I will need to try different models and find what most benefits both me and users. unlimited time costs unlimited bitcoins =)) there is no so much bitcoins and will not be. I though about recurring billing for accounts or ability to send email with link to paid extension or something like this.  I am not really comfortable with cookies. So probably, I will not implement it now. But I planned to implement accounts (with login/password) for storing balances. I can work on this project right now, since I have something to do for living, but definitely will get back to it later =) This site built by me. It assume all payments are legitimate (that's why you got instant access to download), but to prevent abuse - it put all commission payments into queue and keep it there until 6 confirmations received and only then pays commission to file owner. You can use it to host your podcasts too. If 1cent commission is too low - I plan to implement variable price for downloading and really like to hear ideas how to setup pricing.Edit: to not hijack this thread, please post questions regarding ubitio.us to it's own thread - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1811.0;all Just tried this chrome plugin - seems to work. It would be cool to automate populating amount field as well, but at least I do not have to run bitcoin client or run bitcoind sendtoaddress =) this one looks like nude merlin manson =)))) думаю таки да (на счет прона =)). но клубничек не буду добавлять пока ) Why? I thought main idea is to show a way to get first few bitcents in order to download something. Otherwise random visitor will find no way to get coins and just close page. hm. for some reason even 0-confirmation transfer takes for me forever. looks like my client did not send correct transaction or something... hm.. and despite -maxconnections=50 on server bitcoind have only 8 connections. any ideas? Not sure.. Just tried - worked fine. Can you do screenshot next time?As for file size limit - I did not set any, but it's probably set somewhere by default. What size you trying to upload? Just tried with 15Mb file size - worked fine. ne ) ya smotryu lyudi vsyakuyu huyunyu zakachivayut. vidimo chisto dlya testa =)) poka sumarno okolo 20 skachivaniy. ну как бэ идеи разные слегка, хотя в чем-то и пересекаются. я не думаю что через убишиус можно продавать номера аськи. если только по принципу лотереи =))
Thank you for sharing this info - need to read it carefully and see how to act next. I believe at this point I am not a threat to these groups and when I become one, I will find a way around it.  nice! keep up with this video. visual description of bitcoin technology is very important! It was public domain! =)) Seriously, I think here main morpheus's concern is mp3s (and probably videos/software on a smaller scale). I too heard a lot of stories about copyright groups going after music files shared on file networks, but after looking through all file sharing services they just offer you contact them and they remove these files if it infringing someone's copyrights. I think, this covered by safe harbor for online service providers provision in DMCA.  Honestly, I thought about all of this, but really do not know how to deal with that. I planned to add "Flag this"-kind link to report pirated files, so I can remove them. Do you have any links to cases with this *AA group and filesharing services? Please add http://ubitio.us/ to Trade page =) This is paid file sharing site. Like rapidshare, but instead of entering captcha you need to pay small (for now at least) fee. haha =)) http://ubitio.us/ !!! check out new graphics! =) 1) different pictures - this will mess UI for sure. I'd like to keep it simple as field and button. But! It's good idea to release API at some point (once accounts with balances will be implemented), and people will be able to build their galleries on top of this. (probably, create photostock site on top of it?)In mean time - just upload several versions and that's it.2) This probably could be done with adding "destination" to url. Will think how to do this the best way. Great! I will start working on implementing bitcoin descriptions and links in the download page to faucet!  Thank you for reporting back. I was not able to caught it 'cos i was testing with my own wallet )) so it seemed ok)) There is "description" field available after uploading and paying for a file. So someone can post here url to thumbnail, or demo or something. Hm... I need to put html filter here, or this site will xss-ed really quickly ) to track that someone got their coins from Faucet? I don't think so. I can track how much people clicked on Faucet link tho. It should be easily done with Google Analytics. BTW, not sure if it's good idea, but I can mention bticoin faucet on "Download" page, so someone from outside can download files atleast once (with current price it will allow to download two times). Should I do that or we should not exploit Faucet? So. Anyone wants to sell something? =) Feel free to upload and give address to all your fellow bitcoin holders =) Once expanded, we can upload interesting stuff there and give away links to general community and they will have to know about bitcoins in order to download this stuff )may be someone can create some cool widgets for bitcoin and also sell them? To make this work I need to find a way to define "right" price:1) Price should cover expenses on S3 hosting, so it should be related to size of uploaded file.2) Price should be flexible, so uploader have some range he can use to manage price of his files.What do you think? probably will implement on some point. but i think it's not that valuable yet since site itself is not https:// (and i do not have IP address to put second ssl yet) fixed. and downloaded again to test it. seems to store correct address in queue. let me know if you receive 1 cent in an hour. oh.. i think i missed variables.. and it looks like it sent it to himself. sorry. will send you your 6 bit cents manualy and fix this mess! there is 6 downloads. 5 of them already confirmed and sent to 12UfGSQ9S93bp8tXPrdDLYvG4tK4ta4o5q. 6th is still waiting to get 6 confirmations.  it's "them" - http://status.linode.com/2010/11/fremont-connectivity.html nice =))
Not quite sure what you meant. Like MD5 hash to be sure no man in a middle attack happens?  server moving done, so you can try it out again. please let me know if you have any issues. once there will be no issues, i plan to add more text/graphics explaining all of it and release on dedicated domain, so it can be placed on trade page.once this done and site take off - i will add accounts/rating/whatever you ask for =)) ok. datacenter guys started moving servers. so both bitcoin poker room and this project are unaccessible (and my email too =)) chaord, good luck with it! it should really help attract more users into bitcoin community! btw. since now site accept 0-confirmations payments, it will put all commission payments into queue. every 30 mins cron job run and check all not-processed transaction to see, if 6 confirmations received. Once it done - it will send commission to address associated with file. http://ub.yepcorp.com/file/download/3 -- lol =)) did not have enough patience and deployed new revision with 0-confirmations and fixes to expiration code =) feel free to try it =) Yeah. I already implemented 0-confirmations download (read, instant). In next 12 hours my datacenter will be moving servers, so I will wait till this time and upload new version with bugfixes (found, why file was expired - it is a bug). well. i want to play with bitcoins, not to attract tons of warez downloaders (i just do not have enough money for later option =)). At least for now - bitcoins only. It do not add up, but looks if there is less then 6 hours left and set expiration datetime to NOW() + 6 hours. I will change this to 24 hours and in future will look into more sophisticated way of controlling file expiration. It should add 6. But looks like it didn't, since passed only 5 hours between my download and your report.I am working on implementing 0 confirmation download revision right now (it will allow immediate downloads, but will keep paying commission until 6 confirmation received). Will take care about expired files too. keep tuned =) Hm. I will check. At least after my download it should extend time till expiration. And it's definitely passed less 6 hours before expiration. WOW. This is weird image!!!!  UTC. If someone downloaded file in 6 hours before expiration, expiration date moved to 6 hours from last download. So it keep purging junk files from my S3 account. Actually, this is one of the way I thought to do it. But I will need to implement a "queue" which will look for confirmations and do comission payments only when payment confirmed 6 times. Kiba, thank you for suggestions.I plan to keep anonymous upload but add accounts in order to speedup downloads since currently it take 10-20 minutes to download file since it take this much time to get  atleqast one confirmation of transaction (and I am really not comfortable with just one confirmation too)If this going to take off - I think about some sort of ratings or something to show on front page. Tagging as well. Nice picture =)) I have no idea =) I just done that. Idea was to replace captcha with bitcoins. So to evade bots we make it costly to download. Also to encourage uploaders - they get commission. Now I understand that it will not work for the same goal as sendyouit.com, but probably someone here will find it useful =) That's weird. Download happens directly from Amazon S3. Should be pretty fast. I will look into doing CDN if this will take off as an option. To get commission there is two requirements:1) You have to pay fee after uploading file (after this you will get field to enter your bitcoin address)2) Convince someone to pay and download it =)Every time someone pays for file if there is BTC address associated with this file, half of user payment will go this address.if someone sent less then file price (right now - .02 BTC), nothing will happen. If someone sent more - it will work the same way someone sent correct amount - uploader will get half of sent money.
this is russian bear =))) just like the ones walking on the streets =)) now they promote bitcoins =)) Thanks! I will add this to TODO. Heh. Now I need to develop admin for removing stuff ))) Lol http://ub.yepcorp.comTry it =)Following idea:1) Someone upload file he want to share. 2) Someone opens download page and download file.Optionally Uploader can pay .02 BTC and will be provided a field to enter his own BTC address. Everytime someone pays for download, Uploader will get 50% of payment.For Downloader - for every file he wants to download - he need to pay 0.02 BTC (only once per file per session).Now:- It's really basic. There is no accounts. This means it takes long time to get confirmation of payment. User accounts with balances will be introduced later.- It's more suitable to selling files, not sharing like other free/captcha share file sites.- I am hosting files on Amazon S3. Price 0.02 is definitely just for beta period and later will depend on file size or something else.Comments/critiques are welcome. Slowly (very) working =) Main functional work already. Need to come with some design for it tho. Can't provide any estimate right now - sudden freelance project and day time job keep me very busy. Idea slightly shifted from just rapidshare-like website. It became more pay-for-downloads project. Not sure if this is what people will want but it definatelly can be used =) Anyway, stop teasing. ) I will publish announcement once I will be ready to accept beta  users. http://aws.typepad.com/aws/2010/11/new-ec2-instance-type-the-cluster-gpu-instance.htmlBut still expensive - $2.1/hr. I believe it doesn't make it profitable to generate coins with this? How much blocks you can expect with two Tesla cards? Thanks!Could you provide link to list of "bugfixes by Dean Gores"? Can't find 'em. Added "Hide Gravatar" in My Account - Edit form. ok. I rephrase it. Merchants UNABLE to check anything except numbers in card holder data. Because I can register one account per credit card easily.Yes. You did not expect doing fake utility bills and ccs on legit forums? =) And why they need to have photo?Before you get to insurance, you will need to obtain merchant account. If you decide to go paypal way (like mtgox did), you will be fine until first fraudulent charges. Once you get past this (i doubt you will do), you still need to convience some insurer to insure you. And if I'd be insurer, I'd probably look for more easy and less risky money. =)Left option - self-insure. But you will need to put this into exchange price. And it will be too high that no one will want to buy bitcoins from you with credit card.I believe physical dealers accepting cash is better option. First of all - you can use any name on credit card and it will be accepted by merchant. Merchant checks only number/expiration date/cvv. If they use address verification (which available only for US/Canada/UK addresses), they use only NUMBERS from address and ZIP code. Name, street name, city, state can be any! Next - there is forums where you can order professionally made copies of credit cards, passports, utility bills, etc.. Even with callback verification - there is services where people do required call checks... I.e. - all this identification bullshit doesn't really work. So credit cards is non goer. Only real cash, internation wires (probably) and things like this.But the best way to do it - accept bitcoins for service and products. We do not need really cash exchanges. But ofcourse, if it could be done, it would let people get in easier. Kak variant - hz kak seychas, no ranshe mojno bilo wmr vivodit pryamikom na rub schet. mojno useram obyasnit kuda platit i poidei doljno prokatit'.no voobshe, chem bolshe variantov - tem luchshe. nado prosto prikinut rashodi i dobavit commissiyu chtobi ee pokrivat'. nu lichno u menya visit mnogo wmr schas, poetomu hotelos bi skupit bitcoinov do togo kak vi sdelaete etot switch. a pochemu nelzya i wmz i wmr? Если у кого-то есть биткойны и нужны рубли - велком ту биржа! Скупаю по 7 рублей штука =) Спасибо!2All - ещё 180 рублей добавил к ордерам. Меняю мои 180 рублей на ваши 30 биткоинов! благодарствую за оперативную правка баланса =) на емейл получил от вас =) запостил ордер на покупку биткоинов по 6 рублей штука. если у кого есть лишние - велком то btcex.com! отправил 3к wmr, а получил 2820. =) аккаунт hippich Since bitboy released nice "Accept Bitcoins" logos, I added one with 20% discount offer for all bitcoins orders. =) I am in =)
i disabled rake again. will try to fix wrong pot amount used and then will turn it on again. until then - game is totally free =) Hey guys, I think I reworked rake module to cap rake on 3BTC. Please, let me know if it will charge more.I will try to reach author regarding HU blinds issue, but can't really tell for sure when it will happen. IMHO, He more concerned about licensing issue instead code from my short experience. =( I have $200+ in moneybookers which i do not have use at all. If anyone need moneybookers and wish to trade their bitcoins - please post here. Make sense. Will add to list of features requests =) I totally agree, but I am a bit concerned about someones trying to keep privacy. So i'd like to hear opinions before I will publish list of nicknames =) Another question for people out there:I plan to pay back some percentage of rake paid to top X performers. I thought about setting up public "Top X players" showing their rake profit. There is question - should I show real nicknames or use something like "Player 1", "Player 2" instead hidding who is really top performer. Any thoughts appreciated! Okey. This is going to completely different topic =))It's not gambling yet. Bitcoin is virtual currency (for government sake). It's just another web for-fun poker game. Once it will become too serious, I will consider doing all law related stuff. Including obtaining gambling license if I will have to. But really, I doubt this will happen soon. Right now I want to focus on fellow bitcoiners and provide another way of having fun for their minted/traded bitcoins, rather then trying to build any serious business out of it. So most important stuff for me right now - bugs and features of poker room itself =) 'cos law - is opinion of majority. and if you do not agree - you are minority. =) BTW, you can disrespect law, but you have to follow it to live with in society which use it without problems. =) This makes perfect sense and will be done sometimes. But just not now. Right now the whole bitcoins world is in it's infancy. but what it is doing and what kind of resources it requires? I have my own dedicated server and depending on requirement probably I can host it. probably, i am missing something, but I have no idea what bitbot is =)  I do not care right now about all regulations and stuff like this. If kid was smart enough to find, buy/mint bitcoins - there is no moral right to limit his/her access to bitcoin poker room.But later - proobably. If this thing will ever take off and bitcoins become second paypal - of course all these details will need to be fixed. But not right now.  I wonder what's about screensize. Was it's easy to play at all? Or you used some sort of zooming? Was it phone or tablet?  Today tested room on iPad - work perfect =) Looking forward to test it on android device. There is two types of business adapting bitcoins - new, bitcoins-only, businesses, like mine https://betco.in . And existing businesses adding bitcoins as a payment option, like mine http://store.gifti.usKeep in mind, that "plug" new payment option to already developed and running websites usually not that easy and therefore owners allow manual only payments. For example, so far I did not receive any order on products from my gifts store (with bitcoin as a payment). Does it make sense for me spend 40+ hours on developing custom module for bitcoins payments then? I do not think so. So I've put page about accepting bitcoins on my site and done with it for now. If I will see more traction - I'll be interested to develop payment module in order to save time for fulfilling orders. So keep this in mind. Bitcoins is still in very-very early adoption phase right now. You can't expect polished everything just yet.  Thank you everybody  for great game! Let's start from 0.25 table? There is already another player sitting at it =) And I am really not feel confortable playing thats high yet ))  I've configured tables to have 180 secs timeout in case soeone experiense room freeze. i still look for options to eliminated this bug. I am in!
Hm.. Interesting feature. I will look into makign it for sure! Thanx! I am in! Will setup calendar notification for it! It's up and running again =) https://betco.inPlease, report all bugs you will find out. The best place is on GitHub (link in the bottom of the site) or here.And consider this project still beta =)Ah. If table will freeze for you - press F5 or right click and Refresh. And if it will happen often - report it back too!Thank you everyone who were helping me with testing all of it! Fixed these serious issues and site opened again. Please, consider this beta yet =)2site admins: could you add link to /trade page now? Sorry, right after start another bitcoin member found really serious problem. to make it safe, i had to somehow prevent users access website until I will resolve this. I plan to finish this tomorrow.  As usual, there appeared bugs right after start. First one was realy serious, but thank you to joe, it is safe now.Second one with showing wrong card faces. Therefore I again shut it down and going to work on it.Sorry guys. =( Please, add http://betco.in into Trade page. This is poker room, which accept bitcoins and only bitcoins. Finally, I decided to open it. Link already leaked, so no need to hide it anyway. As a bonus for all beta testers I've deposited some bonuses. =) I did not had a lot of bitcoins, so do not expect a lot tho. =))Anyway, spreading a word about it is highly welcomed!Also, I am going to return rake back from now. So... it's B450 for $50?. It means that one bitcoin currently worth $0.11 - that's good =) I thought about filesharing service. I think about using S3 as hosting place and requesting payment each time someone wants download something and share these fees with person uploaded file.If this this niche not taken yet, please, add me. I plan to start work on it after 17 Oct and hopefully get first beta within week or two. Need to polish bitcoin poker room tho... =)))  Do you accept wire transfer?2All: any idea how to secure transaction? It's corporate account for offshore company. I just put what I have. It doesn't makes any sense for small amounts, but if you will get serious amounts - I am pretty sure this will not be a problem at all. I have a company bank account in one of European countries. If someone needs to do wire transfer <-> bitcoins, let me know. My actual bank expenses are about $10 on inbound wire and about $20 on outbound wire. Also, I will have soem expenses if I do not have enough bitcoins available as well as to earn something. Anyway, if you have such needs - mail me at pavel@yepcorp.com and we will discuss this matter. I have static page saying we accept bitcoins - http://store.gifti.us/buy-with-bitcoins . Right now I can't add automatic payment option, since it will envolve module development for Magento, which is not that easy for me, nor I am sure it will really benefit me. So if this kind of "payment instructions" will suffice it would be great. If it will take off, I will definitely devote some time into development production payment module for Magento and will open source it. Thank you for your feedback!BTW, These gifts are intended to be sent to someone, not to yourself, so it could be used by someone anonymous too. I see some views and site visits, but no questions or interests. Why? Is there no much BTC available, or it (gifts) is not something community currently needs or something else? well. from my practice doing something and not knowing exactly why is not really good way to do things. Once someone will need such module for Drupal - let me know. my email is pavel@yepcorp.comofftopic: how to make this forum to send notifications to my answers? I think I clicked everything and it still doesn't send 'em. I want to start discussion on my store http://store.gifti.us  where I want to start accepting bitcoins.Right now it's not integrated in any way, since it takes some time to create module for Magento, but if you need to buy something from it - you can always contact me at pavel@yepcorp.com and I will take care about it.If any questions or feedbacks - please feel free to post it there. good idea IMHO. Another MHO - format for this payment request file should be in XML (or JSON?) for both debugging purposes and extensibility. I want to try to sell personalized gifts for bitcoins. I have a http://store.gifti.us store which accept currently credit cards and paypal only.if you want to use bitcoins - please contact me directly at pavel@yepcorp.com. I will use mtgox.com rate to calculate price in BTC. To get idea of shipping expenses - add something into cart and proceed to checkout - it will show you shipping options and their price.If it will go off and I will be able to manage orders - I will add permanent payment option to checkout page as well as "Bitcoins accepted here" logos.Discussion - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1066.0How I can add this info to http://www.bitcoin.org/trade page?
Continue to experiment with free SSL certificates providers. Now installed StartSSL free certificate, so do not surpised if browser will tell you difference =)Hope, this will allow skip this ugly warning screen for most users. I've used tc features in linux kernel to drop 50% packets and it still worked. If I keep increasing drop ratio, browser itself start throwing nasty errors, so I wanted to check in real environment. But this freeze issue happens only sometimes and hard to catch. =)) I've added plugins for keeping retrying to send packet to server in case of connectivity problem (after which room "freezes"). Can't tell for sure, but seems to work. Could someone play a bit and let me know if room will "freeze" again after clicking some action buttons?This is biggest issue for me and snowstopper for opening room to public (imagine having AA in hand and room freeze =)) I have pretty good skills in Drupal module development. What;s about bounty for it? =) Do someone have real project to use this module? Account edit page! =) four colored deck =)I've resized from original taller variant. this way it's much easier to integrate with existing design =)) what does this mean? =) Wow. That's great find! Thank you!As for room itself - yea, it still beta. Still some annoy errors happens ) So please send email.2All: What variant of cards you like the most? I think closest one is "Nobus 4-color full color card deck"? I need to check what is a license on them tho.. Ah. sorry. yeah, I've got certificate from CACert.org =)BTW, they have instructions how to make you browser trust cacert issued certificates by default - http://wiki.cacert.org/BrowserClients One guy from IRC promised to send tomorrow PSD of their own cards they used in their own poker room. Will see if they are better source to do colors tweaks! Will post it there once I will get my hands on. Here is uploaded to imagebin.ca - http://imagebin.ca/img/BJD5BjE.pngWe need to preserve size and order of cards (at least for now). Thank you!My main concern is - this project will be opensourced right after opening project to public, so anyone will be able to grab copy and modify it, use and distribute. So I am concerned about including something what could infringe any other ownerships. Probably, I will just work on existing card and will try to change their color. But if someone can contribute their graphical work - I will appreciate this =) Otherwise, it will take some time for me. I do better coding, then working with photoshop/GIMP =) Ah. Yeah. It's quite possible. Any guidlines regarding this image? Where from it came and could be it used in open source project? Also, I saw in chat logs you mentioned four colored deck. Could someone explain what this mean? As I understand, we play with one deck on table. So where from four colors should come? That's weird, since I think that's exactly what I've fixed. Do you think you can reproduce this "auto" raise behavior? If so, could you make sure to clear cache and try to reproduce it and let me how to do it.Do you remember if table lagged at this moment? Yeah, it change's color of nickname to grey and show you link "sit in" instead nickname. I will look into source to see how it could be done more prominent. I like idea making the whole player area (avatar + nick + everything around inside this greenbox) to be darker. Fixed bug with wrong Ad card displayed.Added lock on buttons, so now if you click multiple times on fold/raise/etc buttons, they will send request only once to server. Previously, if you clicked twice on these buttons and server did not responded fast it could generate two separate events and it acted as you clicked same button in next deal. Fixed some random flashs of cards (which were refered, like you were able to see oponents cards. In reality this is cards from previous deal). Added credits page, and cool domain name - thank you noagendamarket =)next "features" will be captcha on login/register pages, password retrieve feature and support for uploadable avatars! 2Insti&semyazzaRegarding this Ad = 2c issue. I've found jpoker replaces identificators "Ad" with "Ax" in order to avoid ads blocking software. And of course, I missed this =) So what happened - turn card showed (lowest) 2c card image instead of correct Ad card image, since it didn't matched Ad card CSS class. I will fix this today in the evening. Thank you for finding these weird bugs!! Hey, I've created startup script for Ubuntu/Debian and want to share it hereUpdate this code with correct path to bitcoind executable in NAME and correct user and group in CHUIDSave this code to /etc/init.d/bitcoindThen run following commands:$ sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/bitcoind$ sudo update-rc.d bitcoind defaultsThat's it. Now it will start with your server start.#! /bin/sh### BEGIN INIT INFO# Provides:          bitcoind# Required-Start:    $remote_fs# Required-Stop:     $remote_fs# Default-Start:     2 3 4 5# Default-Stop:      0 1 6# Short-Description: bitcoind daemon startup script# Description:       bitcoind daemon startup script### END INIT INFO# Author: Pavel A. Karoukin <pavel@yepcorp.com>## Do NOT "set -e"# PATH should only include /usr/* if it runs after the mountnfs.sh scriptPATH=/sbin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/usr/binDESC="BitCoin Daemon"NAME=/usr/local/bin/bitcoindDAEMON=$NAMEPIDFILE=/var/run/$NAME.pidSCRIPTNAME=/etc/init.d/$NAMECHUID=USER:GROUP# Exit if the package is not installed[ -x "$DAEMON" ] || exit 0# Read configuration variable file if it is present[ -r /etc/default/$NAME ] && . /etc/default/$NAME# Load the VERBOSE setting and other rcS variables. /lib/init/vars.sh# Define LSB log_* functions.# Depend on lsb-base (>= 3.0-6) to ensure that this file is present.. /lib/lsb/init-functions## Function that starts the daemon/service#do_start(){   # Return   #   0 if daemon has been started   #   1 if daemon was already running   #   2 if daemon could not be started   start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON --test > /dev/null \      || return 1   start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --chuid $CHUID --pidfile $PIDFILE --exec $DAEMON -- \      $DAEMON_ARGS \      || return 2}## Function that stops the daemon/service#do_stop(){   # Return   #   0 if daemon has been stopped   #   1 if daemon was already stopped   #   2 if daemon could not be stopped   #   other if a failure occurred   start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --retry=TERM/30/KILL/5 --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME   RETVAL="$?"   [ "$RETVAL" = 2 ] && return 2   # Wait for children to finish too if this is a daemon that forks   # and if the daemon is only ever run from this initscript.   # If the above conditions are not satisfied then add some other code   # that waits for the process to drop all resources that could be   # needed by services started subsequently.  A last resort is to   # sleep for some time.   start-stop-daemon --stop --quiet --oknodo --retry=0/30/KILL/5 --exec $DAEMON   [ "$?" = 2 ] && return 2   # Many daemons don't delete their pidfiles when they exit.   rm -f $PIDFILE   return "$RETVAL"}## Function that sends a SIGHUP to the daemon/service#do_reload() {   #   # If the daemon can reload its configuration without   # restarting (for example, when it is sent a SIGHUP),   # then implement that here.   #   start-stop-daemon --stop --signal 1 --quiet --pidfile $PIDFILE --name $NAME   return 0}case "$1" in  start)   [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Starting $DESC" "$NAME"   do_start   case "$?" in      0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;      2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;   esac   ;;  stop)   [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_daemon_msg "Stopping $DESC" "$NAME"   do_stop   case "$?" in      0|1) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 0 ;;      2) [ "$VERBOSE" != no ] && log_end_msg 1 ;;   esac   ;;  #reload|force-reload)   #   # If do_reload() is not implemented then leave this commented out   # and leave 'force-reload' as an alias for 'restart'.   #   #log_daemon_msg "Reloading $DESC" "$NAME"   #do_reload   #log_end_msg $?   #;;  restart|force-reload)   #   # If the "reload" option is implemented then remove the   # 'force-reload' alias   #   log_daemon_msg "Restarting $DESC" "$NAME"   do_stop   case "$?" in     0|1)      do_start      case "$?" in         0) log_end_msg 0 ;;         1) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Old process is still running         *) log_end_msg 1 ;; # Failed to start      esac      ;;     *)        # Failed to stop      log_end_msg 1      ;;   esac   ;;  *)   #echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|reload|force-reload}" >&2   echo "Usage: $SCRIPTNAME {start|stop|restart|force-reload}" >&2   exit 3   ;;esac: As for rake/monthly fee/donations - will see. If project will roll - we will find out what best fit this community. I have total control over this poker room, so whatever will work best for us I can implement. (It's based on opensource components!)As for marketing - you are right. I do not want to make bitcoin = dollar. And it's a reason why I want to be completelly separated from any exchanger, just to make sure, it's still "play money". This is one of these nasty bugs I mentioned above. This happens when connectivity with server goes bad just for one request. I also got this behivior few times (with other buttons, like fold, raise, call). So it's something I want to fix asap.
Great find!!! Thank you, I will do shopping today! =) Hm. I didn't thought much about security.. I've got idea today in the shower - I think I will setup cron job, which will transfer money regulary to another address(es) keeping only small amount to keep small withdrawals automated. If someone will decide withdraw 10X of what usually gets withdrawn per day, he will get his order in status "Pending" and I will recieve email to check if everything is fine, then transfer money to BP wallet and resubmit his requests.This way even if someone will get total control over server, disaster will not happen. As for security in general - I have experience working in this fields from both sides, so it's something i know already. And this server, where it's hosted, is dedicated server and fully in my control. If things will roll, I will move to separate server just for poker room.But yeah, I like idea start slow. This is something I had in mind too. It's easy and in the same time, will fit better. =) Hey, I finally did it. And I totally agree with you. =) So from now plays at BP are absolutelly free. (but not forever =))Any idea what needed to be implemented/fixed before opening it to public? I really like idea of doing tourneys, but it will take a while to code this part.  Do we need full-fledged profiles, or it's better to keep users anonymous? May be some kind of ratings (but what we should rate here?). Anyway, I want to fix few nasty bugs, and open it to public finally. And work from there depending on what people want and how. Backend is pretty solid. Need to shop for good domain name for it. If someone got some idea for domain name - let me know too =) not yet, but i already spoke with creators of poker-network software, and they pointed me to how i can do it. i will work on it tomorrow. Fixed issue with manual setting raise amount. Also made slider to act realtime (instead setting value when you finished sliding)Also implemented buttons with CSS3. Sorry IE8 and previous owners, you will see plain square buttons instead =(Rearranged buttons as we discussed before, removed these pot, 1/2, etc buttons and made left buttons to be more easy to use. Comments on buttons welcome, since it is first time I work on UI stuff =)) I'd add to fresno. You can avoid most of internet threats by switching to *nix desktop instead of windows. Ubuntu is one of easiest distributions and works right away usually. There is tons of software to replace windows software. Believe me, I work in company where everyone use MS stack, including exchange server, iis etc. =)If you have to keep windows, from my experience working AGAINST AV software:The best: Antivir, NOD32Better: KasperskyThe rest was junk. Kaspersky was slow. NOD32 and Antivir had really close quality of detecting my code.I'd add that I had this experience 2-3 years ago. Probably something changed, but I doubt it.  Changing value is definitely bug in client. I will look into it once I will get back home from work. As for flash - in theory it's used only to play audio, but I will definitely change this into HTML5 <audio> soon.I need to setup bugtraq for this project.. %) Yeah, and I lost 10 bitcoins... Although, as usual for me in poker room =))) Brand new table for bitcoin poker room =)) I've reworked it when you came back so you did not noticed it. %) Well.. I expect that it will be popular =) So we definatelly need enough tables. =)I've added .01-.02 table and called it "Instis". If you do not like it - provide better name =))There is rake in system, but I am trying to turn it off. Will let you know when it will be done.Also, on a side note, fixed issues with caching content by browser on HTTPS:// pages. Now it should work even faster =) Changed a bit code. Now balance refreshed everytime you access any /user/ page, i.e. My Account, Deposit, Withdrawal for now. Decided if it will cause load problems, I always can cache on BitCoin Model layer instead forcing user to press "Refresh" everytime. =)Also, added sorting to table list. Now tables will be sorted by number of people at them. So it will be easier to find table with someone already there =) Just small hack, probbably just for me =) I see your transaction in Bitcoin, but not in poker room. Did you pressed "refresh" link in Deposit page? I think it's a bit confusing, so I proably make it refreshing each time you open Deposit page or My  Account page tho.. Certificate is self-signed so it's good only for keeping traffic crypted and it will complain that browser can't confirm identity of certificate owner, becuase it's never was issues by root certificate issuers =). as for "poke" - as you found already - it makes sound when someone joined same table as you. =) Just added https:// support just to make sure it's not so easy to sniff traffic. =) Just want to let know everyone who tried it already - I've fixed few issues with queuing ajax requests and now it should be way faster. Also fixed anoying flash of previous cards before dealing new cards.since there is not so much people yet, let's schedule time to play. I am on GMT-5 time zone.for everyone: if you want to be beta tester - let me know via email pavel@yepcorp.com (better) or PM (not so good =)). There is no option to play with "play" money, but there is table with as low as 0.02-0.04 bets. Oh. Thank you!For some reason it didn't worked for me first time i tried and I thought that since it's not on wiki it's not supported =)Now everything works as intendend. Looking forward for inclusion of listtransactions patch into main branch =) This is nice feature to show list of transactions for user, thanks!But right now I just need getreceivedbyaddress RPC call. This thread mentions that this is already implemented, but there is nothing about it in wiki - http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=apiis getreceivedbyaddress also somewhere in svn? I want to avoid compiling client, since I had some problems with it and I need to do it on several machines with different hardware. So I'd better download binaries =))ps: right now, since app and bitcoind runs on the same machine, just execute 'bitcoind getreceivedbyaddress [address]' =) I need to get received amounts for specific address, but it looks like there is not such JSON RPC call yet. Is this something implemented and just not mentioned in Documentation, or it's not implemented at all for some reason? что-то мне подсказывает, что вы через чур хорошего мнения о мозговых и спинных особенностях личностей, которые там работают =)Вообщем, я все к тому, что пока вы не крупны - назовитесь чертом лысым и все будет в порядке. А как только узнают, что у вас крутятся деньги - вас по-любому достанут - тут дело не в юридических тонкостях, а в брутальной тупости и наглости. Так что пока все тихо - делайте, а там чегонить придумаем =)
