WEEK 10– Facebook campaign  (06/12 - 12/12)  Bitcointalk username: GaluelFacebook url:  https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90 Facebook friends: 3233Like and Shares:https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90/posts/1973055766268679https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90/posts/1973055729602016https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90/posts/1973055689602020https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90/posts/1973055559602033https://www.facebook.com/Galuel90/posts/1973055522935370 so you need wait till next year ) Le podcast Monnaie Libre traite du bitcoin dans son dernier numéro (n°41 du 30 Octobre 2013) :Monnaie Libre n°41 Bitcoin, 2 milliards d’euros Bravo ! Excellente vérité. En Relativité il n'y a pas "tout le monde". Il y a "tout le monde(t)" ou encore "tout le monde(t+dt)" ou encore "tout le monde (t+ev)" où "ev" est l'espérance de vie. Et tous ces "tout le monde" ne sont pas les mêmes "tout le monde", mais l'ensemble de ces "tout le monde(t)" constitue bien "les hommes" qui vont vivre, ont vécu, ou vivent dans le référentiel considéré.Cf : pour une approche plus visuelle  le flux l'homme la monnaieCela ne s'impose pas en effet.Il s'agit bien d'un choix que de prétendre respecter les 4 libertés économiques ainsi que le principe de relativité dans l'espace-temps.Il n'y a pas de "Je" il y a des "Je(t)" qui échangent des valeurs qu'ils produisent (et ils ne produisent pas l'espace, ni le temps, ni la matière originelle, mais des ajouts immatériels uniquement).C'est au sein de la zone monétaire, tout nouveau né (toi y compris) reçoit une part monétaire qui n'est pas un droit sur les biens d'autrui dans sa construction mais l'inverse, la valorisation de sa propre valeur ajoutée en tant qu'être humain, sur une base minimale, et symétrique dans l'espace-temps avec tous les autres "Je(t)".C'est donc un accord entre tous les "Je(t)" d'utiliser une monnaie décentralisée basée sur chaque individu et s'accordant sur le principe que tout individu est producteur de valeurs, qui selon le principe de relativité ne peut aucunement être décidée comme étant de la valeur par quiconque, mais qui, pour que les échanges soient possibles partout et en tout temps, sur cette base de vie (ev) où tous les hommes naissent et meurent, fait l'objet d'une monnaie basée sur l'émetteur de toute valeur = chaque "Je(t)".Que nenni ! Une monnaie émise sur la base des individus permet parfaitement en tout temps et en tout lieu d'échanger sa production avec autrui en plein respect du droit de propriété. Il n'y a aucune négation. Il y a la reconnaissance que la valeur n'est produite que par les individus et n'a aucune valeur absolue, et la négation du droit à décider pour autrui de façon péremptoire et arbitraire ce qui est valeur et ce qui ne l'est pas, ce qui est le principe de relativité.Nier le fait qu'un individu produise de la valeur est la négation de la liberté de choix de ce qui est valeur et de ce qui ne l'est pas, l'expression de la volonté d'imposer ses vues à autrui.En relativité on ne peut que dire "je(t1)" ne reconnais pas de valeur produite par cet individu(t2), mais j'accepte le fait que mon avis n'a pas de valeur absolue et je reconnais tout à fait le droit à d'autres "Je(t3)" de reconnaître des valeurs là où je n'en vois pas.Comme l'hélicoptère de Léonard, Debian, ou Edmond Albius.Encore une fois la TRM ne s'impose pas.En quoi donc serait-elle "totalitaire" ? Ceux qui prétendraient utiliser la TRM pour imposer une monnaie qui en respecte les principes et en niant le droit pour autrui de décider de son propre côté d'une monnaie qui respecte d'autres principes quand bien même elles seraient en désaccord avec les 4 libertés économiques et le principe de relativité, ne feraient qu'agir contrairement au fondement de la TRM. Boussac ne comprend pas le principe de la pyramide de ponzi (ou vente à la cavalerie) parce qu'il reste bloqué à la pyramide qui fait payer en monnaie une valeur, tandis que concernant une pyramide monétaire les derniers payent en valeur pour obtenir de la monnaie.Le principe de symétrie (ou covariance ou relativité) est en vérité bien incompris, surtout quant il s'agit de sa partie temporelle où il faut contempler plusieurs vies successives pour voir où sont les biais inacceptables devant les Droits de l'Homme.Mais peut-on demander à des hommes de comprendre un tel principe de symétrie quand il a fallu 800 ans et des dizaines de générations pour que, excédés, un peuple finisse par établir les principes fondamentaux de la liberté de l'égalité et de la fraternité ?On ne le peut pas et accepter les quatre libertés économiques ne s'impose pas, ce serait contraire à leur fondement.C'est pourquoi pendant encore longtemps des hommes feront peu de cas de leurs semblables présents et à venir. Yes to all !SEL (Système d'Echange Local) = LET (Local Exchange System)I understand but I'm not in favor of such a system.For me money (and in specifically UD) is the solution to solve what I call the "time-space 3 producers problem"At t=0 X want Vy (value produced by Y), Y want Vz, and Z want Vx, and for X Vz is no value, for Y Vx is no value, and for Z Vy is no value.They can exchange in a circular way, and create money for that in equal proportion to each one to do it in a fair way.At t X,Y and Z are died, but an economy remain (after many years of CONTINOUS transformation), it remains A,B,C exchanging Va, Vb, Vc, which are totally different values than Vx, Vy, Vz, which are considered by them as no value.And so on, generations after generations. @RedHere are different kinds of LETS. There are Credit Limited LETS, with for instance 1000 for each, -500 / +500 limits of money for each individuals, and of course UD.BitCoin as (his first money system that should take another name than the P2P tool itself) is a limited Credit LET like.But SCEC is much more near a DU since it give a fixed amount of money to each participant (so much more than 5% / year, but with decrease in time).In fact to reach 5% / year, with a fixed amount of money f, it needs :f / (f * y) = 5% => Y = 1 / 5% = 20 years to reach it... See graphOf course LETS users understand quickly what is a DU, but they stated often from just a few years with few participants, the initial fixed amount of money is enough without visible problems, since 5% / year, only double the monetary mass for a 15 years period (1,05 ^15 = 2).It depends generally of the SEL system, number of members, period of existence etc... Each money system has his own history of experience. I'm sorry it's not what you beleive. Relativity Theory is about structure of Time Space at very LARGE scale, and not at all about atomics, which revolution (who invalidated Newton too) is Quantic Physics.Both invalidate Newton Theory. But Newton Theory is still acceptable theory between certain frontiers as a correct predictive theory, but fail in many aspects like Mercure Perihely problem as one of the most know historically (but also about what is space, time, don't predict Big Bang, Black Holes, Time change with speed, constant light speed for all observers etc. etc...). Not at all. It's about how creating money : for all, or for some ? In a time-space (global) perspective only dm/m = Constant => m = Exp (ct) is a solution.This is the classical asymetric mistake.Who bring value ? The old on a money system, or the newcomers in the money system ?Who decide ? You ?From the newcomer point of view the old ones own possibly no added value, from the old ones newcomers possibly own no added value, from a Universal Dividend point of view no Human Being has power to decide for the others what is value and is not (but human being itself, as only universal value of any economic system).Money is NOT value. Joining a money system has nothing to do with value, but with a common tool for EXCHANGE value, in a fair way between members. If you think you identified precisely some clear causes and conditions in which a desire effect don't occur, you should then try to change causes and conditions to obtain the desire effect, or simply abandon to desire this effect.Just do as you think it will be good, and stop doing what you clearly identify as bad.I can't say more to you.Thank you for having read what I written here.Regards, I'm afraid you don't know what it is to define a formal system. It has nothing to do of true or false which are always relative things depending of the formal system you define (paradigm).You should read Gödel's incompleteness theoremsTo define a paradigm such as "The only Universal and Fundamental value of all economic system is individual human being", it is not a question of true or false. It's a question of defining a paradigm, a formal system in which you can developp what is true and what is false into that system knowing that in all formal system they are things true you cannot demonstrate (Gödel).If you need to exchange about economics on other paradigm, it's not what I'm explaining, it's not what I discuss about, It's not what about I exchange with. You can create another discussion on the paradigm you want, define it, apply it and follow it if you think it will give good results, do it, learn about the results, change it if it's not good, keep it if it's good. Yes it is.Your questions have no answer in the paradigm I describe. I've yet answered that point. It's neither a theory, neither an idea, it's YET an experimental fact, I gave all links necessary to study real experience about this (Namibia, Brazil, Alaska, Italian SCEC etc...) that are also pointed on the wikipedia article, BIEN network, etc... Thanks to study the result of all those experiments, and study the proposition of lots of politicals including it now in their propositions in Europe, South America, Africa and elsewhere with all the material you will find over there.Experimental proof is the only way to justify any idea.For example for Gold backed money, experiment shows it has been rejected long time ago yet, like Newton Theory was rejected after Einstein revolution.Take time to understand deep thought. No and it's not money. It's a share of a specific good. Not usable in all space, all times, for all exchanges, not a value for large number of human beings.It's nothing interesting. I say ANY Money System that is not symtricly created in space and time is a ponzi scheme. That's what I say. Money is an universal (Global - Common) tool for exchanging goods. We cannot create-il in an assymetric way, that is to say from any center point in Time-Space (considering the Time-space of the money system itself, not the whole one).As a COMMON tool, it is all members ownership.It's a spacial Ponzi shcheme if it's created in a particular space point, and it's a time ponzi scheme if it's created in particular time points. It's a time-space ponzi scheme when it's created on particular space spoints and date points (like is the official money = a time-space pyramid ponzi scheme).(Time-Space is not a pyramid. Time-Space is a 4-Dimensionnal Sphere with no particular point of view in front of physics laws, with hubble constant rate of inflation)Value is not the same from an individual point of view, neither from a date point of view because this is individual choice. But Money as a COMMON tool has to be created without any particular point of view, as space isBitCoin is 100% ok considering the space perspective, and not ok considering the time pespective as its initial money system works. BitCoins appears with correct analysys as a time Pyramid Ponzi Scheme (and not a time-space one like official money).Logic, Science, Physics, Mathematics, fair rules games to enjoy, and changing the rules when we discover a not-fair effect, that's my philosophy.I don't want people organising Ponzi Scheme, this kind of things breaks relationship between the players for bad reasons, create wars, revolutions, blood and fears.It's just one way between lots of possibilities to understand what is Universal Dividend. You can also see it as :* A little part of Global transmission to next generation to complete individual transmission.* Considering the only universal and fundamental node of any economy is the human beings.* Millions of individual investments made by all on each individuals, with risk as low as possible because of the large number. So if some don't provide the expected "return" on all future times (who will juge this ?), the others success will compensate the investment.* The global economy zone as a big enterprise owned by individual shareholders, who receive so a yearly dividend.* Fair Money System* Want to live in society and be able to exchange with all members without lack of money and central control.etc...Lot of possibilities to see it. All are ok for me. I just remark each individual accept better one or other, so I adapt when explaining it.My vision is a space-time one, which is not easy to see if you didn't study Relativity, so it's often necessary to translate it in each individual global paradigm. So DON'T create money please. Because this is a ponzi scheme. All that has nothing in relation with a money system. I never said there is not "poor" I don't care at all about poor and rich, I just say a faire money system don't create money for some and not fot the others.That's all. What you do individually and become poor or rich is part your individual choices and individual feeling about what is rich what is poor. What you do with common tool is part of common agreement which needs to be fair to be accepted for most people who is just able to think about what is fair and what is not fair. By the way, since 5% is the optimal dividende for an 80 years life expectancy we can estimate what should be the universal dividend in monetary zones.There are 15 000 billion US dollars in M3 more or less (see M3 shadow stats) for 303 millions of citizens.So the Dividend whould be in 2010 of : 15 000 / 0,303 * 5% / 12 = 206 dollars / month / citizenIn EuroZone we have M3 = 10 000 billion euros in circulation and 322 million of citizens.So the Dividend whould be in 2010 of : 10 000 / 0,322 * 5% / 12 = 130 euros / month / citizenWith great differences into the zone : Minimum social in France is around 500 euros / month / citizen, like in Germany, and minimum legal work income is around 250 euros / month in EuroZone countries such Slovaquia and Hongria (which is not legal is France and Germany where minimum work income is around 1200 euros / month). With 70 years of life expectancy 0,98 is reached with a 5,50% Dividend, and with 60 years with a 6,50% Dividend.It's absolutely NOT arbitrary ratio.It's about 1/N money creation for each individual member during his life for all times.
I wouldn't like to be in a money system where money globally inflate, and I receive nothing too. BUT you missunderstand Universal Dividend which is NOT such a thing. ALL members receive the Dividend.In fact you must understand the real effect of Universal Dividend on your own goods.Imagine you have a f fraction of the total money. You receive a 5% dividend, that is to say your money is then f + 5% / N where N is the number of participants.Your PERSONAL (Local IS NOT global) inflation of money is (NEW MONEY - OLD MONEY) / (OLD MONEY), that is to say :(f + 5% / N - f) / (f) = 5% * (1/N) / fSo your PERSONAL inflation MONEY rate DEPENDS exactly of the money you own, il you own exactly 1/N of money your personal inflation rate IS TOTALLY EQUAL than GLOBAL one, and you "lose" nothing in this point of view. If you have LESS money than 1/N than your personal inflation rate is HIGHER, and it's progressively LOWER if you keep more than 1/N fraction of money.So the change of your value Goods + Money is a completely personnal choice depending of your estimation of how much prices of GOODS will change, and how much fraction of total money you own when you make your decision. If have less than 1/N money you will have more than 5% and so perhaps you estimate it's good, but if you have more, you will have less than 5% and you'll think is not ok.If you have much more 1/N fraction of money, and keep it, the prices of the goods will decrease as an effect of DEFLATION because the reste of economy will have less money, so with less money much lower are the prices in money. So it's absolutely NOT CLEAR to know what to do, and you always take a risk.So a little inflation rate is good to maintain correct money circulation in economy.Little inflation rate is good to share money creation process in front of time and next generationsLittle inflation symetricly allowed is good to attract new members, and so new producers5% is not arbitrary ! 80 years is life expectancy.The total fraction of money each member of a fix community of N in long term can receive so :1/N [1 - 1/(1+x%)^80]see DEMONSTRATION in Universal Dividende Justification N°2And to reach 1/N created money for all, you need f(x) = [1 - 1/(1+x%)^80] to be as near 1 as possible, and as low as possible to reach the most efficient point.The most efficient inflation rate for a 80 years life expectancy is between 4,75% and 5,25% with a very near ratio near 1/N of 0,98. I completely agree with that point.That's why we'll make a fork.As it is designed in fact BitCoin is a mutual credit limited, which concern only first users, and has no interest for other ones, but the ones who want to work for them.Only universal credit thru space AND time is fair. Ignoring future is the biggest mistake all conservative thought has made starting that beleiving gold is other thing than a metal, and thinking money should not benefit to all the people and represent value if it's limited.If limited money is a value, so keep at zero money, you have infinite value. Doing that you decide specific values for which you estimate price, and you deny fair money creation for the next generation compare to yours. Next generation who want to buy, invest, sell completely different things you cannot even imagine.They say to you : "We don't matter price, we just want as relative money created as you during our whole life, so don't steal money creation for your own profit. You have been able to have what you have because of cooperation of your generation within a money system in which you created money, so we want the same. If you don't agree, then we'll build another money system, and we don't want your 'not fair' money".The fact is since my english is far from perfect, I didn't understood this completely...  I cannot think in the individual part only. And in monetary part only too. I think individual and society as well, and money and goods.There is no ethic reason to steal your work, and you have moral right to profit for them. But also when you benefit from others works given to you, you have moral compensation to accept some money is dedicated to retribute collective adding value, which cannot be valuated by direct monetary exchanges (case of free software).It's the two parts of Local / GlobalI think it's not moral to use those kind of global value, and not accept a global money compensation for it.So the exact mirror of : you have moral right to profit from your creation (from a money compensation point of view) is : // you have moral obligation of NOT using global value if you don't accept global money compensation for it.I assure you Universal Dividend develop interest in this population, in France one of the most famous site for Open Source, FramaSoft, published this article.I fully understand this point of view, but in my opinion it's not efficient.We cannot think a money system from a specific point of view. We may think about the people at present and future time, in a fair way. Our value are not theirs, but we try to build an universal tool for exchanging it between them thru space and time.Money is a collective way to exchange goods, it cannot be created for some people and not for the others, by deciding this from a specific point of view.Money is the mirror of a certain part of goods (lot of goods are also directly exchanged without money compensation). The quality, or quantity, or innovation of goods, globally need more money tomorow to developp. If not, there is no adequation between expected money, and work.The creative and continue process of money creation IS the fundamental incitation of growth (inflation of goods).It's BECAUSE this process is cahotic and not based on a regular basis, that fear appears about what people can expect tomorow, crises, bubbles and holes.Long term economic investment need a long term fair money system. When the money system is something which says "tomorrow we will have -1% of money, and next week +10%, and in 5 years we don't know because our money system is totally instable by contruction", that IS the cause of crisis, bubble, holes, and lose of confidence nothing else.Because of lack of money compensation, they will build their own money system. For sure.If the old money system propose a change to monetise the part of global value all people work for (not only Open Source, Mothers for their children and lot of other big work...), then the need of an other money system will disappear.If lots of money systems developp is because the lack of money due to a non-fair non-symetric non-timespace-dense and old money system.I don't agree at all. I don't know what is "prices". I only know how much money there is, how it is created in space and time. Any other things concern individual choices.I don't want any specific values I DONT CARE AT ALL, be a part of a money creation system.in fact quite all those things were not "essential" 100 years ago, and none will be existing in 300 years. And I'm totally sure than an ascete don't care about all what you could define, but he give something we can't imagine to those he teaches. Every human being is a universe of full value, nobody has the right to deny.By defining "essential values" in fact you deny "other's essential values", like gold was in past. Exactly the same. All this are very big mistakes towards intense creativity of individuals, able to develop an entire personal universe of life.I don't want any human being define what is value and what it is not, what is essential and what it is not, what is high price and what is low price.I don't want a money created on any other base than human being as ONLY fundamental and universal part of ANY economy of past, present and future, until we meet other intelligence able to trade with us. Since my english is not perfect, sometimes I'm not sure to understand subtile sentences like "allowed for an epiphany", if it's a joke or not ?!  In any case the problem with bank system with a central banks is the fact that money is not symetricly created in space and time, but only towards arbitrary value, decided by centers of decisions, creating bubles AND HOLES (we only speak about bubbles, but where money is not created we have holes).It's impossible to see stability of money creation in such a system, where lots of values are denied.Symetric money delegate idea of value to individuals, with a universal way to exchange it. So it's not a problem concerning any specific value.Rich is not equal to have money. Rich have can have goods, and not money. It's a choice to keep money and not goods.If you think bread is a specific value very important to estimate your money create a money backed on bread !I think any specific value as no universal value but human being. I don't care about bread. And if all people buy bread, I will be able to buy something people don't bye, if all the people sell bread, I'll buy at a better price perhaps, if I decide to.So looking at inflation looking at any specific value in a very strong mistake undestanding economy as a whole thing.Not only. It's very difficult to recover taxes... People hide what they have. taxes = bad idea in any case.+ value is not money. Value is all what you own including money which can be a very small part. So speaking about value considering the tool of exchanges that is money is also a mistake.So don't create BitCoins.Yes, they'll do what they think it's good, what they think "this is value and this is not" and when selling it perhaps the market will say "ok you took a risk, but this is something I don't want to pay what you expect.Do you know which prices of what will increase or decrease in a growing economy, where tomorow people will buy "XYZ" instead of "ABC" due to innovation ?I don't know what is value for others, I have no idea at all. I have an Idea of what is value today for me, but even for tomorow I don't know, and without any doubt, not idea at all of what will be for my children.In an innovative economy if money is not dense and stable in space and time confidence cannot developp for investment. In a local part of economy, because of lack of money, investment stop, people try to developp another money system. Not because they don't produce, not because they are "poor", because money is not present, because it has been created only on the past and stocked in another local economy, or it's been created in others parts of the space.Because money is not universal.A minimum "flux" of money is necessary if the goal is allowing universality of exchanges elsewhere. Money is not value. It's a tool to exchange it.You don't think about collective goods, which value depends not of selling it, but to the fact that a lot of people can use it. So those goods inflate rapidly, and give collective value to society (so it's also during time evolution of language, mathematics, science, as collective goods).This is what you do with all open source systems developped to run internet, and to developp digital economy. You profit for it, and the developpers have received nothing, because they expect a return they don't see.You should discuss with open source and open content producers about that point.What you think about money (not inflate it !), they do it with goods (digital value inflate) without a minimum money compensation in the system we live.Goods inflate, and money should not ? We have a problem of logic here. Exchange anything has some value for you. I don't need gold, and don't want, it doesn't matter for me gold, or any value you think it's value it's your point of view not mine. And my point of view today is not the same as tomorrow because value change every day and is different in space and in time.Because the process of money creation has to respect the more stability possible (low inflation rate from the beginning to infinite), as well as respect next generations of members. Life expectancy is 80 years, and to reach of 1/N equal sum of buy power (BP) of the created money between N members of different generation of people, 2%/year is too low (BP = 1/N * 79% with 21% of inequity), and 5% / year is fine (1/N * 98%). As low as possible + time equity with an 80 years life expectancy converge towards 5% / year as near the best compromise.The good inflation rate for the Dividend depends of life expectancy.Universal Dividend Justification N°2 (generational compromise in front of money creation process) There is no individual that act or think, only a collection of brain atoms excited by complex past and present conditions, which generate some "ideas", "dreams", "images", "fears" or "desires".I see nothing else, no "individual" exist, it's just a convention of denomination of a phenomenom, as collectivity is. That's exactly definition of Universal Dividende as monetary creation on the only universal basis of all human acts : individual, present, and future member of the economic collectivity. By joining any money system, you approve a collective rule... You're part of the collective decision. It means that during time an acceptable number of newcomers can come in (progressive), after aproval of an amount of full members (cooptation). This is to be sure of a new individual identity coming in, and not a duplicate one, or whatever...Also, I used you as an example in another thread. Just FYI.I can define : I want as much liberty as possible for individuals, and a state in charge of organising ONLY BUT GOODLY justice, education, and security, and of course "fair money", avoiding too much power concentration (anti-trust), which is an objective of long term we didn't acheive in Europe (too much state power), neither in US (too much money stolen thru centralised banks power).I like countries organised like Holland, Swizerland or Spain. i also like US in many aspects, but not about money policy.I consider our liberty is always relative, because it depends on other's liberty, and certainly of next generation's one. A system of cooptation vote is possible : for instance if 30% of the members vote for newcomer (thru their own interface), he comes in.Decentralized, doesn't mean without collectivity control about money, which is a collective agreement ! @redThere is no absolute reason to prefer stable inflation rate for money creation better than allowing credit to new ones taking from old ones, mathematically, but there are lot of psychological reasons :- Everyone should be incited to invest and succeend earning more money, it's possible to have 100% winners in Universal Dividende and only 50% maximum in stable money...- Taking money to people is not welcome... People always do all possible to avoid it...- Creating money for all is better welcome. All the peole is ok to receive more money, but the reachest will probably buy something instead of keeping too much money would COULD lose "value" (relative thing, because of investment could generate new value unexpected next day...).- Economy generally growth. I we compare times, for sure I prefer to live in 2010 than in 1850, even if in 1850 I could be relativly reachest compared to the other peole, I see myself richest of 99% of all people of 1850, I live longer, I can use internet, medical technology, travel by train, and can also dream of a fly in Space... So money grow with economy because next human generation will be proprietary of better goods than ours, and so will need more money to exchange it, time after time, and progressivly, as innovation replaces old goods.- Growing (but slow growing) dividend is the only fixed common value we could all be sure, anything else depending of the sum of global work each one will done. It's difficult to generate confidence in a system where ALL the things can change at any moment because of births and deads etc... At least, a little amount of money is sure.We also have to think about people who don't think about money system. Could be genious people generating great value for all, and we need, I think, giving them some stability at minima, representing by our common money : a fixed rate dividend of global growth, whatever growth will be. Progressive Cooptation can be a solution (everyone give agreement and when a certain number of votes is ok, the new member come in).Any other solution is welcome to improve this.(NB : when Europe includes countries in Euro System it's a cooptation based on confidence between central powers, not citizens choice, but governments are elected so...).Yes I posted earlier about it. A solution could be to have two conditions to have the dividend :1) be an individual human being coopted.2) Run Block generation code to improve security systemCould be ok for me. Block generation could be the minimum to do to be part of the money system, and so Dividend could depends on it. Yes I agree with that opinion.No I'm deeply liberal and want everyone to be able to be reachest, but without taking advantage on creating money, and would like a universal money progressively adopted in space and in time. It takes long time for a money to be adopted, and it's in large part because of it's design which give it universally usable in every part, at any moment, for all exchanges.If you create a money for a restricted amount of people, whatever it is, even gold, it won't be universally usable for exchanges, and so others money system will compete, and universality goal will never acheive.If you think in an ethic, symetrical creation system of money, potentially present at minima in all parts, in all times, the goal of universality is possible to acheive, and using that money where and want you want possible, respecting all individuals by assuring a progressive, low, and symetrical way of creation. Thanks. I read your post, and would like to propose some more points to think about.- Not think about inflation rate as a global information because starting money creation is infinite rate of inflation, but think about inflation PER INDIVIDUAL member in the time, and over life expectancy. When a people die how much money will he have earn from money creation, can we compare with next generation people will own ?So think money as a RELATIVE power of exchange between individuals in time, and what can they expect to use thru the creation system (and about the exchange system it's part of their own choices, but the creation system is part of present and future members choice as a collectity agreement).- I understand generating money thru blocks wich is part of the collective security system of exchanges. So perhaps it could be interesting to think in a mix, where generating blocks create the same relative individual money in time, and not an arbitrary changing (in fact deflation rate) relative money creation. By members running an individual node, and not as much nodes as they can.In any case, my purpose is NOT to incite BitCoin to change his money system. My purpose is only exchange ideas, and propose to think Universal Dividende because I thought a lot on it, and I'm personnaly as many people I talked with it's the only system which respect the changing point of view about value, of future generations of human beings, fundamental, and universal part of any economic system (there's nothing else as universal than individual human being in any economic system).And we think in France BitCoin a great tool corresponding to a Universal Dividend System. So we think about a fork implementation for it. I said earlier that I agree with that point, it's a problem to understand. Cooptation is a solution.In any case confidence is the key of all society and money system, it's impossible to do anything without confidence.If you don't trust human being you will have problems in whatever you want to do.I said also in my firt post here I am enthousiast about BitCoin tool as a non-centralised P2P encrypted money system, we yet started such an idea here under the name of "liquidbank"...A specific value, which in my point of view is not a "value", and in any case money should not be backed by any particular value, and as it is said in BitCoin Site itself, which is great think I share :Nothing else and it is fair. No one should impose any specific "value" to others, and we can share a common money if it's way of creation is fair concerning all specific definition of what is value or not by all the member, that is to say, created on every member present, and future.In my point of view Bitcoin is quite the perfect tool to developp faire money it only miss the definition of individuals as real "value" of economic system, and time-space symetry in money creation.But the tool himself is very great, money system is a collective agreement independant of the tool to manage it. Of course you're right, this can happen. Someone can go into the system, spend his part of created money, and not giving back something.It is yet the case in real life lot of people receive more apparently than they give (ill people, young people, not honest people etc...).It's the risk of the system, the same risk like build any society : hope that the association will still be more benefit than staying isolated, starting by giving something to others in exchange of money, is the fundamental risk of any money system.BitCoin has the same risk. But in fact between the firts ones who will get the fixed 21 million Bitcoins, some will perhaps do quite nothing than keeping his part of created money, and when 21 million will be reached, spend it, and go away.You're right but one aspect : we can do nothing for the past, but only for the present and infinite future. This part of time is the only part we can act in. I absolutely don't want to impose any system.I just think, and propose arguments for Universal Dividend as the best system for creating money because of spatial symetry (All created money must go to the members), and time symetry (During a living time each individual should receive more or less the same amount of created money, and no generation should be prefered from the time point of view).The fair point of view concerning symetry is considering space and time, and not one or the other. For instance when you create money from a central bank this is assymetric space money, and from a specific generation it's an assymetric time money.And in fact, of course, I will run this system within an existing one, or in a new one, without imposing it.I agree with the contractual necessicity of volontary adoption of a money system.Thanks for your contributions. Impress who ? To do what ? This is nonsense.Perhaps, I don't know at the moment. If it is an open source project it should be possible to make a fork.What is this exactly ? I don't understand ? Is this an order ?And this is a threat ?Which Spam ? I don't hide my identity, it's openly written in my blog, and I always use the same pseudonyme. I have no problem to openly exchange ideas. Of course you need it. The money creation system you use, respect or not other's value definition. If I define the fundamental creation of value as the individual man, I can affirm it's not fair to create money for the first ones in the system, without thinking of the last ones who will enter the economical community, who will bring their own.
