Yeah, fair enough.  OTOH, it did end up doubling.  And 54% is a nice gain for nine hours or whatever.  I've been giddy all day.   Indeed.  Why aren't you?Prices fluctuate.  This isn't a problem.  The problem is that you see it happening and your mind tricks you into believing that it's going to keep happening.  You have to override that with reason and the best knowledge you can get.  It's at 17 right now.  Every BTC you bought at 11 has nearly doubled.  That's freaking awesome!  Unless you were tricked into thinking it was going to sink without end and didn't buy. After installing 0.3.21 I wasn't sure if I could get it running with the -server flag...it runs, but I'm still not connecting with DiabloMiner so I tried running bitcoind but I had to copy the libeay32.dll into the \daemon directory.  Now that's chugging away in the background and when I run DiabloMiner I get several copies ofduring which time it spiked up to 16Khash/sec and then it stopped returning those errors, threw but didn't quit.  It settled into displaying "0/yyyy khash/seccsecc" at the bottom of the terminal where yyyy started up in the 12000 range and quickly dropped into the low hundreds before I stopped it.  Well, it might not be good, but it is progress.  Now -- using the previous version of the Bitcoin client, after reporting that it's added the GPU, it has started throwing "Can't connect to Bitcoin: Connection refused: connect" errors.  It throws a bunch (~12) of them with "waiting..." between the first several and then khash/sec figures between them for a while (in the 11-13000 range) and then reports the fatal error and drops out of running.I'm launching the app with the -u and -p flags each followed by the values in the bitcoin.conf file.  Am I supposed to be doing something different because I'm using 0.3.21 now? It gives me the same result each time I run it.It appears in my process list but I never see any CPU consumption at all and GPU Caps doesn't show anything changing as I launch it.  I'm on Windows Vista Ultimate 64 SP2, if there are any known issues.If I run it with -D 0, it doesn't write this line to the terminal:[6/9/11 10:12:49 AM] Added GeForce 9600 GSO (#1) (12 CU, local work size of 512)and instead writes "waiting..." and then replaces that with "0/0 khash/sec"Is there any diagnostic info that I can provide that would tell you what's going wrong? So, if the last thing to appear in the terminal isand it appeared five hours ago.  Then what should I be looking to correct?And just to be sure, the terminal is the command line window, right? Where is that? The hash meter?Also, am I correct in thinking that if a block is found, it will show up in the Bitcoin client?  And a year ago, the Bitcoin client showed hash rate in the lower left corner of the gui, but it doesn't now.  Does that mean anything or just that it doesn't mine anymore? Is there a document somewhere that shows me what I should expect to be seeing upon first running DiabloMiner?  Maybe it's doing what it's supposed to but the stuff I'm reading in this thread makes it seem like I should be getting more feedback in the cmd window.I'm running with: DiabloMiner-Windows.exe -u uid -p pw (and then several different attempts to include -D with: 0; 1; 2; 1,2)And I get stuff like:[6/9/11 10:12:48 AM] Started[6/9/11 10:12:48 AM] Connecting to: http://127.0.0.1:8332/[6/9/11 10:12:48 AM] Using NVIDIA CUDA OpenCL 1.0 CUDA 3.1.1[6/9/11 10:12:49 AM] Added GeForce 9600 GSO (#1) (12 CU, local work size of 512)And then nothing else for at least fifteen minutes (so far).  Is it just doing work and I'll see more when it has something to report?  Or is waiting a waste of time because I made some simple mistake?I'm also running GPU Caps as suggested in your wiki instructions and it shows a GPU load of 0.0% near the bottom of the main GPU tab, but I don't really know how I should be usign that tool to check in.   Hi all,I heard about bitcoin last August, installed the basic client from bitcoin.org and ran it on two Windows machines.  I racked up a small balance but the last batch generated was in November.  I wasn't paying any attention to the app but just recently found that my version was obsolete.  So my first question is, did I stop generating bitcoins just because the population of users exploded or was it because my version was out of date?  (I'm assuming the former.)  The new version of the client (0.3.22-beta) doesn't seem to allow me to turn generation on and off and doesn't seem to give me the option to set the maximum number of cores to consume.  What's up with that?  First, am I actually generating at all?  Then, where did those functions go?  Also, I see people referring to their hashing speed, and I recall that I knew where to find that last year -- like it was obvious on the GUI, but now I don't see it at all.  How do I determine that?Finally, the first version of the client was a CPU pig -- as one would expect given the work to be done.  But this client doesn't seem to be doing anything with the CPU at all.  Have I used the wrong client?  Have I misconfigured something?  Am I thinking about this all wrong? I'm sure all these answers are super-easy and I think you for your time in addressing my issues.  I searched around the wiki and through forum posts, but didn't find this stuff. Thanks guys.  That all makes perfect sense.  If it's working as it's supposed to, that's totally fine.  And yeah, it sounds like my expectations were set artificially high by an early bit of luck.  The calculator suggests that the average block on my old XP box is 43 days.  That'll be fun to watch.     But my modern machine is about 6.5 days, so that's not too bad. OK, so then why did I generate my first transaction in a day and a half and my second transaction hasn't yet been generated -- after something like 4.5 days?  That first transaction has been accumulating confirmations in the status and is up to 1158.  Am I supposed to tell the client to move on?  Does it have to go to a certain level before moving on to generating the next transaction block?  It still lists a fluctuating khash/s figure so I assumed it was working on the next block(s), but there's clearly something (probably fundamental) about Bitcoin that I'm not getting. So, I heard about this on 8 August and fired it up on two machines -- one is a modern eight-core and the other, seven years old.  My first transaction was generated on the fast machine in about 30 hours.  No transactions since on either machine.  Did the rate of block generation slow down since the tenth?  That's what I'm guessing from the discussion here, but as a noob, I'm not really sure how to be sure or where to check these changes.  Did I immediately precede Bitcoin being slashdotted?
