A very useful link, thank you  Most credit cards allow the owner to initiate a charge-back for up to 60 days after the purchase. The bank doesn't ask any questions if the owner simply says it was illegitimate - it's up to the merchant to prove the transaction was a legitimate purchase, which in many cases is almost impossible. I once lost $10000 worth of artwork due to this policy even though I had a swiped card and signed slip. It took me a private detective to prove the delivery address was that of a relative to the card holder, and even then, I had to institute a civil procedure to get the art back. Once all that was done, I laid a criminal charge which was never taken further by the bank or the police. Now imagine dealing with "digital" goods and in which you don't have the advantages of a "swiped" transaction. I place my little example here to illustrate how difficult it is going to be to create a "fool-proof" method of taking payment, especially with cards and mobile transactions (since mobile companies place the same burdens of proof on the merchant). I fear only mass transactions with transaction fees can buffer the effect of a planned 10% charge-back.  A free or low fee service simply will not show the profits to buffer it's clientèle against fraud and thus, ultimately, find it impossible to survive.. You can send me a portfolio of your work, if you wish. I often need to use freelancers. It works perfectly  Working from a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 64:Testing your guide The line:sudo apt-get install build-essential libgtk2.0-dev libssl-dev libdb4.7-dev libdb4.7++-dev libboost-all-dev checkinstall svn gitReturns the error:E: Couldn't find package svn Windows 7 64Improved performance from:4246 khash/sto4667 khash/s  I wouldn't say running bitcoin through tor would be a security advantage, rather more of an anonymity advantage in that it would be almost impossible to link a transaction to your ip.    I was wondering how much 29 seconds were worth. Thanks for doing the links they are awesome.  Hehe, it's all good. Trying to help is as much fun as actually managing to help .Long live Bitcoin. LoL, well no currency system is going to solve that particular problem . I found finding something to be passionate about solves this particular problem - good thing you found the Bitcoin movement then .I've only been involved with bitcoins for little over a week now, so I haven't had much time to implement any earnings instruments yet. I have access to many products, so one of the first projects will be creating an online retail store to accept payments in bitcoin only.I have some financial games in mind where trades would happen in bitcoin - the primary idea here is not to "earn" bitcoins, but rather to encourage some movement of bitcoins.The following idea is a hobby of mine and does not really relate to the crux of this thread: I am currently putting together a solar powered machine to generate bitcoins - the idea is to process "green" bitcoins, making it the cleanest money in history  Anyone know of some decent deep cycle batteries - it's all I'm missing.  An excellent guide. Thank you so much for your efforts - it will certainly help me  I currently have a Core2Duo which is outperforming a i7 and several Quad Core machines even though they all get an equal opportunity to generate uninterrupted. I don't think we should underestimate the "Luck" factor.  I don't mean to state the obvious, but your post does not mention shutting down Bitcoin and starting it up again. When I upgraded to the new version several of my machines also stalled on the block count and restarting Bitcoin solved the problem. I think the same problem was mentioned in an earlier post and restarting also solved the problem on that occasion. Just something to try. LoL - yup, I tried that first time round but it kept complaining about the maximum size of the post  Settings OptionsThat concludes the Windows screens shots. I hope it helps. Settings Generate Coins Address Book Receiving New Address Address Book Receiving Edit Address Book Receiving Address Book Sending Add Address
Address Book Sending Send Coins Received Sent Sent/Received All Transactions I am all for promoting bitcoin but I wish to offer some friendly critique about the post on the other forum. Through personal experience I have found attempting to promote something on other forums is a tricky business. One has to remember forum owners, moderators and users are generally very possessive creatures - they hate marketing or external sites, especially if it sounds like marketing.There is nothing wrong with the article on the other forum, if it was published on a site which accepts articles. Within the context of a forum where everyone has a voice, and everyone has something to say, whether it is worth saying or not, one has to use more tact to push others in the direction you wish them to follow. On a forum or discussion group one has to use the one power open to you - the reader's opinion and ego. The readers in these media often want to say something, they don't like to be "preached" or "marketed" to. The simple way to achieve this is to spark debate with a simple post like:"I came across this open source project at www.bitcoin.org which seems interesting. I kinda like the fact it cuts out the middle man for micro payments. I wonder if it will work out and become a valid alternative payment system? What do you guys think?"Now instead of having told them how great it is, they have been given the right to make up their own minds about it and tell you what they think. It really doesn't matter what they say then, because most who comment and even those who don't will visit the site to see for themselves instead of dismissing it out of hand because they disagree with your opinion; such as they have done with the posted article we are discussing. Either way bitcoin will win because many will visit, some will disagree, other will like it, but they all would have visited the official site. I've also found that allowing something like bitcoin to speak for itself in such forums creates less negative postings than stating your opinion as a fan and encourages a healthy debate because the posters don't feel they taking on a salesman.Just my opinion  jimbobway, why not offer an article writing service for bitcoin? That way you meet the criteria by offering your skills as a professional service. Nothing stopping your from accepting donations too then  Hey noagendamarket. Lol, I hate it when I am slow to the mark. I recently purchased a share of a promotional gift company. When I found bitcoin, one of the things I placed on the to-do list for my developers was to create a zazzle alternative for bitcoin users. This may take a little time since other projects need finishing first.Have a look at the catalogue's of some of the manufacturers and distributors I work with: http://amrod.co.za.s3.amazonaws.com/images/PensAndMoreECat/index.htmlhttp://amrod.co.za.s3.amazonaws.com/images/ecatalogue/index.htmlhttp://www.altitudec.co.za/BrowseByCategory.aspxhttp://www.holbay.co.za/reseller/0/holbay/products/all-products.aspxWe would be able to brand any of the items listed. The options would include high quality branding options like embroidery for better quality clothing items. I would suggest the community chooses some items, which we could list. Since setting up branding machines always carries a setup cost, branding a higher quantity distributes the cost and so reduces the total price. With this in mind, I would suggest when items have been chosen we run an ordering period which would list the bitcoin price of a target amount of product, and the bitcoin price with the current level of orders.I am sure we can competitively compete with zazzel in terms of price and we could take bitcoin payments. Please let me know if you would be interested in working with me on this project instead of with Zazzle. LoL. I have some baseball bats in the cupboard if we need to break some kneecaps. But seriously, as long as the right to use bitcoin is protected, or at least if the usage is ignored, by a single country, the bitcoin itself should be safe. Should some governments declare it illegal (in many jurisdictions it will take some fancy spin-doctoring to achieve this), the people who find themselves in these countries will be able to use the system anonymously, if they are careful. The best protection for bitcoin will be to achieve a wide acceptance in the "new economy" of online games and services. Should this happen most governments would find it extremely difficult to oppose the use of bitcoins outright. They may try to force some form of regulation down on the system but this will largely be limited to the places where they will be able to enforce a modicum of control, like the exchanges.  It's almost impossible. There is huge debate in the country about the damage these kinds of protectionism do to the economy of the country. Unfortunately, getting a politician to do something about our competitive disadvantage is far harder than trying to compete despite it, so we need to think in terms of creative competition  One solution I can think of is to create a unique key pair from a fingerprint scanner and a secret algorithm. Problem of course is most people have 10 fingers and 10 toes, but some have less or none and a few have more. Making the key generation uncrackable would also be a problem, I think. South Africa - YaY 2 for Africa To be legal from my country's perspective I would need to:1) Limit the value per transaction. I'm not 100% sure which value this would be - I'm currently consulting on the fact - but it would be less than $10000.2) I would need to withdraw any profits from the offshore account (paypal, etc) within 30 days of receipt within the account.3) If I would need to refund, or pay someone out, I would have to do that within the allocated 30 days. Paying out cash would not be allowed. 4) I would have to declare my income from the sale, and pay taxes on it.5) Obviously normal accounting practice would need to be followed and books maintained as per normal tax regulations. I too think this is an important debate.Galuel's proposal with NewLibertyStandard's supporting arguments has sparked some interesting idea's and a healthy debate about alternatives. It would be interesting to see a simulation which compares the current bitcoin system with alternatives such as these so one can calculate possible outcomes, and further the debate in a positive way. Unfortunately this is beyond my level of skill, so it would be interesting if someone with the experience could create such a module for simulation. Of course you are correct. Playing with semantics isn't going to turn something into something it's not. I think my previous attempt at humour was simply expressing the deep sinking feeling that although we work for something that feels right, governments ultimately will not accept anything they cannot control, and if bitcoin becomes something which threatens them, they will find a law to create to destroy it. Just look at how quickly they have destroyed the freedom which once existed on the internet.  hehe, you're right, I shamelessly ignored the speculators didn't I  Agreed, they will have past experience to their advantage. However the work done which I mention has little to do with the code (urm, dear developers, I know you slog away at the keyboards like caffeine slaves, no disrespect implied). The real work, in terms of the currency, is creating a secure proof of work to prevent things like forgery, etc., which users currently perform with their cpu's. The other part of the work is convincing other people of the value of the work done (in this case the bitcoin) by offering them something they can exchange for a coin. The relatively small and few non-exchange items on the trade page is proof of how difficult it is to create value. The new currency would have to reproduce all of that work. To tell the truth I am surprised the Bitcoin has achieved it's current value against the US $ and feel it is rather inflated thanks to fundamentalist followers who want the concept to work rather than a true value pegged to production. The question is, will the future project have this advantage? If the motivation of the future generation is to create coins to enrich themselves rather than to create a "pure" means of exchange, would that greed not tempt them into corruption and thus reveal the true intent in the modifications? If the new system was based on a fundamental objection to a current one, as bitcoin is, they could have the same advantage and if so, good on them for then putting in the work to create value and a better world.I think where we differ ideologically is that I believe money should be pure and untainted by direct human intervention. I find the current need to generate coins an unfortunate necessity because it distracts from creating any real value. In a perfect world, money should not be "created" - ever. Production should. Yes, there should be enough money (or as I say, paper) in circulation so that all who choose to use it can deliver a promise of value to someone they purchase from. To create a constant amount of money (5% a year) to infinity which is in no way tagged to production places an unnecessary burden on the currency, forcing it to play a role which is beyond its scope, and opening it up to abuse by the powerful. I have a problem with the idea that creating the paper (bitcoin or another currency) should be profitable. Since the perfect world does not exist and one cannot create "paper" from nothing the miners are important. This is why I say the current generators of the paper we need to use should be seen as miners selling effort for value.  Very true. It is very dangerous to classify bitcoin as a currency. Far better to declare "sale of virtual goods" on the tax return than to declare a currency exchange cause the man will find a way to accuse you of laundering money. For the sake of safety I vote we declare it a commodity, whether it is or not  I admit the current system of distributing coins probably isn’t ideal but it would take a great deal of statistical analysis I’m not enamoured to do to prove that… but the word “stealing” would only be valid if you propose the act of creating the network is not work of production for which money is earned and the rest of the network is taxed for to pay. Current nodes produce at risk, since there is a very real risk they may not realise the value of their production thanks to many factors (such as bitcoin ultimately failing) which I will not mention in detail. Current nodes should be seen as miners who are mining a finite resource at risk. They then take the product to market and trade it for something they can use. If they wish to add to the risk by hoarding bitcoins in anticipation of future riches, how is this different from purchasing shares in a high risk company? If the company does succeed, the rewards will be high, as the share price spikes. People who then notice the share and offer to purchase it, at lower risk, do not complain that those who purchased the original share did so at 1/1000 of the price. Why? Because the share has value and they are after the value they can realise. They do not care to take the risk the early adopters did.Ultimately the bitcoin value will stem from demand + usability vs supply. Since future participants will never be aware that once one could “mine” for coins and since mining for coins is not the objective of the currency but essential work to secure it, why would they feel hard done by? And should they find out, why would they care? The mine is empty and they still have a useful means to purchase products and services. If one of the early adopters then chooses to flood the market they will devalue their own wealth and the effect will be short lived (as debated in many forum topics). So the question is, why would future participants care about past inflation if the value they currently place on the currency acquires them that which is equal to the production they produce? They would only be concerned if their currency became meaningless and stole from their day to day production.Should these future bitcoiners decide to create their own currency, face all the risk of creating their own mine, put the effort in to make it succeed and generate value and if the succeed become rich in the process, good on them. Competition is never a bad thing.
