Thanks to all who donated - though I'm a little disappointed with the result, we didn't hit our 5 BTC goal.The coins have been moved to sell and convert to a cheque to donate to B.A.R.K. Ottawa.3.21992064 BTC  @  $870.24 CAD/BTC = $2802.10 CADCheers, James One last bump before i process the payment out.  Come one people... for the dogs!James Thanks!  It will be valued at the end of the donation period (unfortunately with the price dropping).  I have not been converting to CAD as donations come in (as can be verified on the blockchain).Come on animal lovers, lets get a few more BTC in before Friday!!  Its for the dogs! Thanks!James Sure just place a cash in mail, or cash in person order on our site www.canadianbitcoins.com, and write on the order form that its for BARK, we'll adjust the rate to spot and send the bitcoins to the address for you so its all tracked in the campaign. Blockchain.info just doesnt show confirmations once it passes a certain amount.  The first payment was sent by me last night, it already has over 140 confirmations.https://blockchain.info/tx/6acd7a7dd875f32c59306239f30225b9f0a36148e42837213efcd0086e0f0415 Not sure how to do an auto-update, but i'll definitely check and update occasionally! Wow thank you!!!  RAISED SO FAR:  3.198 BTC as of 2016-06-11 10:30 EDT---------------------------------------------------------------------------Hi everyone, its been a long time since I've been active here, but felt that this warranted a return to the forums...  Recently a local dog rescue charity got hit by ransomware.  Their story has made National headlines on CBC as well as onto CBC Radio One "The Current". http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/ransomware-hack-bark-charity-virus-1.3585039http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/ottawa/dog-charity-gets-files-back-after-ransomware-scam-1.3620986http://www.cbc.ca/radio/thecurrent/the-current-for-june-9-2016-1.3623796/ransomware-threat-attacks-hundreds-of-canadians-1.3623856You can read more about what we are doing to help them here:https://www.canadianbitcoins.com/bark-ottawa.phpBut the short of it is, we're trying to raise a total of 5.0 BTC for them from the bitcoin community, to show them that not all bitcoiners are bad people.  We have donated an initial 1.0 BTC to get the ball rolling.The donation address is: https://blockchain.info/address/1HD921z1ojj6cU4wNubJo5mKUSgvCEPPdx and we will utilize our brokerage to convert to CAD at spot rate and 0 fees, and bring them a cheque on June 24th.Please help us in supporting the dogs that suffered!Thanks!James Yes I can confirm user "canadianbitcoins.com" is my operations manager.  We decided to setup a new account to keep things separate. (sorry for slow reply, lol, been a while since i've looked at the forums!) Not _my_ operation anymore, but yes the location is very safe. Not sure what you think you can tell from a google street view.https://www.crimereports.com/map?CRSearch=21%20concourse%20gate%20ottawa%20on 21 Concourse Gate. Unit 13. Ottawa, ON. K2E7S4. Feel free to stop by the old Havelock Office in Canada and say hi.  The new owners i believe have already extended that invitation to you at the new Panama office. I've been trying very hard to stay out of this, umm, "discussion", but just wanted to chime in... no, this is not troll food, so please, trolls, pay no attention.You've all trusted Havelock Investments for over a year, you could come to our office and talk with us, you could pick up the phone and call us.. and _many_ of you did.  When the Panama Fund acquired Havelock Investments from the original owners (myself and my business partner), we made sure to vette the purchaser (who we already had a pre-existing business relationship with) and required them to have contact information available.  One of the reasons you trusted Havelock to begin with was because we were a bricks and mortar office with a real phone number at our real address manned by real people.  The same continues to apply today, whether its in Canada or Panama makes no difference.   If  you have doubt, please, call, visit the office, check out the new owners in "real life"... if you're not willing to get off your ass and venture away from your computer chair in your parents basement, you probably shouldn't be in the Securities forum.   Taking part in securities (virtual or not) always requires you to do your own due diligence... actual due diligence. not just a few google searches.James Simplest and quickest - create new account with btctc email address, and transfer shares to your other user Quite an unfortunate randomly assigned phone number.  This is how all telecom providers work, they have a "pool" of numbers that they can recycle and give out to other clients after set periods of time.  Traditionally the turnover was a lot slower, but these days with VOIP, its easy to activate/remove toll free numbers with the click of a button and the providers end up turning over their pool more frequently. Agreed  if someone's bot is annoying you, you should write a bot to annoy their bot.  bot wars!We encourage bots (thats why we released our API) as it (theoretically) adds liquidity. Consider it added to my TODO list! These are all planned for the near-future, and were indeed planned many months ago, then everything got put on hold pending the unknown legal situation, which is now resolved.  Now that The Panama Fund has taken over the day-to-day operations and brought in the much needed legal team and is providing all the required licensing, we can get back to moving development forward! It only firewalls on FAILED LOGIN ATTEMPTS... so... either you failed logging in one too many times, or you somehow pissed cloudflare off and they forced a captcha on you.  The firewall applied on failed logins automatically clears after a short period. Loading fine for me here... backend servers look fine too.. maybe a temporary cloudflare glitch... they've had more and more of those recently... getting very frustrating... promo codes are no long activeour phone system was down, its fixed now
We should have cheque options re-enabled within a few weeks. Had to re-order new cheques from our bank due to the bank changing a few things on us without notice....In the meantime, direct deposit is a much faster option! (and free!) https://www.havelockinvestments.com/20131101-announcement.phpFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 1, 2013 - Havelock Investments (HavelockInvestments.com), a leading Bitcoin Denominated Investment Fund, announced today that it has executed a definitive agreement to be acquired by The Panama Fund, S.A, a fully licensed and registered Panamanian Investment Company. The acquisitions creates the world's first, fully licensed, Bitcoin Denominated Fund Exchange, where companies from around the world will be able to raise capital directly, through the exclusive use of Bitcoins. With this acquisition HavelockInvestments.com will be able to maintain its current Funds, as well as expand its operations, while attracting new opportunities in the rapidly expanding Bitcoin Marketplace. The original HavelockInvestments.com team will remain in place and will play a key role in the future growth of the company.  Hi everyone,  this maintenance window tonight is going to take much longer than anticipated unfortunately... probably well into tomorrow, I will post here with updates when I have them.  My apologies for the downtime... Virtex and Crypto financial are very different business models... In fact, I hope that virtex becomes a customer of crypto financial in the future! Indeed, moves are in place  First two SC Singles have arrived and are now hashing away at a combined 123GH/s!https://www.havelockinvestments.com/him_sc1.jpghttps://www.havelockinvestments.com/him_sc2.jpgMany, Many, More BFL SC Singles are expected to arrive soon!James Hi everyone, the recent outtage has been resolved, and the SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM FINALLY IDENTIFIED.This is the same issue that has been affecting the site, on-and-off, for the last 2-3 weeks.I wont normally describe in detail the causes of these types of problems, but in this case I think it is warranted so everyone knows exactly what was going on.- about a month and a half ago we switched our websocket for streaming trade data, order data, etc, from our own custom solution, to the hosted-service www.pusher.com- pusher.com (to their credit) was extremely easy to implement and worked very, very well for the first few weeks.- our server has very strict firewall settings, so when pusher.com was setup, our firewall hole was opened to allow our server outgoing connections to the pusher API server, in order for us to push events to it to be re-broadcast over the websocket to all connected clients- sometime over the past few weeks, the IP address of the pusher.com api server changed occasionally (maybe low priority round robin dns for automatic failover on their end?)  so sometimes our server would be connecting to the correct IP that our firewall allows, or sometimes (very rarely, but increasingly frequent) it would be trying to connect to a different, FIREWALLED IP address.- last night, it appears the IP address has changed more permanently (or, who knows, maybe it will change again)- the reason the site was running slow, or not at all, is that when the site became active which caused pusher.com events to be triggered during key database session transactions (such as within the locked trade transaction) the system was waiting 30 seconds per pusher event for the pusher connection to timeout before continuing.  This cause all the other users/clients waiting on that locked transaction to have to wait for access to that data.SOLUTIONS:- I have now added the new IP to the firewall, and requested from their support staff a list of all possible IP's that it might resolve to, much in the way cloudflare provides a list of their IP's.- I have lowered the timeout from 30 seconds to 2 seconds- I have moved all pusher.com events outside of locked transactionsWith this, I hope the issue is finally resolved.  I sincerely apologize for the recent problems you may have experienced with the site over the past few weeks, and thank you for your patience while we figured out the root cause.If you have any questions, please dont hesitate to ask.Cheers, James Yes, a Panamanian bank has provided to Crypto Financial 10m USD, which is essentially held in trust at the bank and cannot be used for day to day operations. Its used as backing for government/regulators in order to secure the required licenses. YES, we do. My Two Factor Authentication page clearly shows both the secret key, and the "display/hide" link to get the backup codes.. maybe its "hidden" by default, and you have to click the link to expand them.Code:Be sure to write down your Secret Key and your Backup Codes in case you lose your mobile device or your mobile device needs to be reset.Secret Key YOURSECRETKEYHEREBackup codes   Display/hide backup codes Was going to announce the XFR function tomorrow after the quiet rollout tonight... but you beat me to it :p  And yes, also great news for HIM!  The BFL SC Singles are starting to flow! We're as frustrated as you are.. and we're working to find the cause of the issue thats been happening lately.. it is NOT a problem with any of our servers or direct infrastructure, but appears rather to be a networking issue upstream somewhere. As the owners of Havelock Investments, we hope we have achieved a "trusted" status in the community.. We have confirmed the identity of the Crypto Financial directors... as mentioned previously, we have been working together for several months now to bring this IPO live. we're investigating.. all i can say for now is that there are _NO_PROBLEMS_ with the actual servers that run Havelock.. it seems to be a networking issue upstream somewhere.James We migrated our mail service to a different IP yesterday, which seems to have caused some problems...  2800 clogged emails in queue have now been sent... sorry for the delay everyone!James Working on it.. hopefully by end of day Thursday... if my phone would stop ringing for half an hour! Crypto Financial will be spending more time answering questions here, and we are now working with them to possibly release their full business plan (which we have analysed in detail already and has much more detail than the released prospectus), or a trimmed down version of it (removing any proprietary information first).. stay tuned! If our order comes up, we'll definitely take them without PSU's... Looks like they are finally done shippin June 23 orders for Singles, so things will hopefully move along quicker and and we might see our 30+ singles shipping soon! Satoshi Dice (SDICE) Final UpdateAs many of you are already aware, Satoshi Dice was recently sold for 126,315 BTC (Approximately 12 million USD).  As part of the MPEX contract, all S.DICE shareholders on MPEX received 0.0035BTC/share, which translates to 0.35BTC/share on Havelock (Remember, Havelock's SDICE is 1:100).Tonight we have received the full payment from MPEX for Havelock Investment's SDICE Passthru holding of 1,278,200 shares. A total of 4473.7BTC.All SDICE shareholders on Havelock have now received the full 0.35BTC/share credited to your account. This will appear in your transaction log as a "buyback".  All SDICE shares have now been removed from your portfolios as well.  SDICE will be completely delisted from Havelock Investments on Friday July 19th.To learn more about the buyout, please read the official announcement here:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=101902.msg2751536#msg2751536 Havelock Payout is now complete! 
Havelock Investments has received full buyout BTC for SDICE shares. Just waiting to transfer to local wallet before pushing the buyback out... should be done in the next 15-30 minutes. Havelock will not disclose _who_ this trade was, and as far as I know, there was no insider knowledge used. It was, infact, as RationalSpeculator speculated:A user on havelock with significant holdings in SDICE contacted havelock to arrange a way to sell their shares on MPEX without crashing the price on havelock.  I view this as a responsible move on their part.  Havelock listed the sale on their behalf on MPEX, which stayed on the books for about a week before the seller agreed to lower the price, and it was finally filled on MPEX.  Havelock then bought up the shares on Havelock (which the seller listed on the open orderbook), removing them from the total outstanding shares.  If there was insider trading, it wouldn't have been on the havelock side... as the user that sold those shares would have profited much more if they had held them an extra few days for this announcement.Total outstanding shares on Havelock is now:     12782Shares in Havelock's MPEX account:     S.DICE x 1`278`200 I just wanted to post here to confirm for everyone, that bitcointalk user "havelock" is, indeed, our account.  Mitchell will usually be posting from the Havelock account, while I'll likely be posting from the "lightbox" account.Cheers, James Hi everyone, just wanted to make an official post here, to thank everyone in the community for their questions and concerns regarding the PHM IPO.  We are working with PHM now to refine the details and will re-announce soon.Just so everyone is clear -- We do perform very extensive due diligence on our end before listing an asset. We still turn down/reject many, many more asset requests than we approve.  For any that we do decide to list, you can be assured we have worked with the fund manager for at minimum several weeks (sometimes much longer) before launching.  We never rush into any asset listings.  That said, everyone should still perform their own due diligence before making any investment (this applies to bitcoin-world, and real-world), so it is very encouraging to see this type of constructive discussion occurring.Stay tuned, a more refined and detailed PHM IPO announcement is in the works.Cheers James Definitely be careful -- create an API key that has READ ONLY access (ie, check the boxes to give permission to your balance and portfolio, but nothing else)  to provide to 3rd party sites like cryptfolio.  They dont need any sort of deposit/withdrawal/trade access  Please email details of your deposit to info@havelockinvestments.com so we can investigate. Indeed it should not take that long. Deposits are handled automatically so DDOS shouldn't have affected the deposits once the site was back up (since Thursday evening)James By giving you (the general public, not you personally) a detailed account of our current IT setup, what data centers we use, what upstream pipes they use, etc would only be putting us more at risk because more information would be out there to the bad guys to find ways to further the attacks... I'll consider carefully what it is safe to release and what it isn't, but in the mean time, know that we are doing everything we can to prevent it from happening again.  When havelock was setup, we originally had it in the same physical data center, and indeed on the same subnet as lightbox technologies (my other business), which is fairly easy to figure out the IT details of.  This has now been changed so both havelock and canadianbitcoins are completely independent of lightbox technologies.  Thats about all i'll say for now. up again.. for now... things are up again, for now. Lingering websocket stuff maybe.. seems fine now. Joseph announced on a podcast the other day that fee's would be lowered this week.... We're back up now, minus the websocket (I believe thats what leaked the IP of the backend servers) we'll be looking for alternative solutions for the websocket once I get some sleep. I could come on here and post every 10 minutes that im "working on it"  -- or i could just work on it.... and have it take 1/2 the time to fix... up to you.sorry if that sounds snotty, its 2AM and i've been at it since 11AM, time for sleep. We're back up now, minus the websocket (I believe thats what leaked the IP of the backend servers) we'll be looking for alternative solutions for the websocket once I get some sleep. We are currently experiencing a massive DDOS and working with our provider to mitigate.Follow @canadianbitcoins for updates via twitter. This was posted to twitter within minutes of the problem beginning. Sorry we dont monitor every bitcointalk thread when in the middle of trying to fix the problem.No ETA as of yet. We are currently experiencing a massive DDOS and working with our provider to mitigate.Follow @canadianbitcoins for updates via twitter. This was posted to twitter within minutes of the problem beginning. Sorry we dont monitor every bitcointalk thread when in the middle of trying to fix the problem.No ETA as of yet. We are currently experiencing a massive DDOS and working with our provider to mitigate.Follow @canadianbitcoins for updates via twitter. This was posted to twitter within minutes of the problem beginning. Sorry we don't monitor every bitcointalk thread when in the middle of trying to fix the problem.No ETA as of yet. working to resolve ddos now They have until the end of day Friday to release the financials and dividend Canuck: The HIM fund on Havelock tries to balance both value and dividend. We pay out approximately 50% of the generated revenue from mining every month. The other half goes to expenses and retained earnings for re-investment.  Its why we're able to add ~3TH in the coming months _without_ having to issue new shares to raise extra capital (and dilute dividend per share). I think its a win-win for everyone, but agree with everyone else here, TRUST and doing your own DUE DILIGENCE are essential.
I love them too, but i'd be okay with weekly instead of daily. Email info@havelockinvestments.com to arrange share push to mpex So excited. 3TH coming soon! Awesome! Thanks. Ill let my designer know she still has a Job  Lol i just went back and read that thread, so nostalgic.  Bitcoin has come a long way since then.We have disabled cash deposits due to potential issues that we are working out with the banks.  I'm assuming its pretty much the same issue as with cavirtex -- banks dont like anonymous cash deposits from third parties into accounts... even if we have KYC docs for all them, the banks dont know that (because they dont ask, they just assume that we dont for some reason)  It is NOT related at all to whats going on with mtgox (that i know of at least)We are working with TAYPE closely and with the BANKS to find the right solutions that keeps everyone happy. For the most part, it comes down to AML/KYC.Almost time for another Canada Day aimlessly tackling the crowds around Parliament hill spreading the rambling drunk truth about bitcoins!Cheers James Not at this time.. Google 2FA works very well. Thank you for the feedback, we've been so busy with other aspects of Havelock (like coding new stuff and working on new asset listings) that I've definitely let things like the news section fall behind.  I've updated an article for today (tell your friend!) and will be switching it from a manual news listing, to an RSS feed pulled from a reputable bitcoin news source.  Our  business isn't news, so we'll let the news experts handle that from now on!As far as it not looking professional, have you showed them some of the _other_ sites?  One of the top feedback items I hear from people is that they like Havelock because we DO look (and indeed, ARE) professional!  Could you ask your friend what about the site made it look unprofessional?  Or have him call us with his thoughts/suggestions, I'm open to hearing them.  613-686-1661 x101.Cheers, James Nice! if you want our same orange, its #F9B931   This is now added   Sorry for how long it took to implement such a simple request!James Websocket is now live on the website. Any trade on any fund causes the "last trade price" of that asset (if its displayed somewhere on your current screen) to update in real time.  In addition, the "Recent Trades" section of the order book page also updates in real time.More of these auto-updates will be coming over time, the "last trade" was just the simplest to implement.  If you have suggestions of what to live-update next, let me know!James I watch /r/bitcoins RELIGIOUSLY, and somehow I missed that!  That is, indeed, the phishing site.I reported it to namecheap, and they nullrouted the domain and suspended the account.James We split the stock because the value kept growing to the point that it was cost prohibitive for a single person to invest.   If we hadnt split the stocks, a single share right now would be worth 31BTC, or over $3000.Our goal when we launched was a price around $20-$50, when we grew to over $300, we split 1:10, then when we grew to over $300 again, we did another 1:10, bringing the price per share back down to the target range. If people can afford 30BTC fee to open an mpex account, they can afford a 1BTC fee to push assets to it. I wouldn't call that 'insane'. The splits are indicated in both the updates tab, as we'll as annotations on the price graph (charts tab)The graph is adjusted so the splits don't make the graph crazy. (Historical data pre-split was adjusted to show post-split values for unit volume and price)1 unit was ~ $22 when we launched and would now be 100 units worth $30 each.$100 invested at launch would be worth over $13000 today. (A lot of that is due to btc appreciation a well)Cheers,James https://www.havelockinvestments.com/fund.php?symbol=SDICE *** PHISHING ATTEMPTS ***It has been brought to our attention that there is a phishing website setup to steal havelock investments passwords from users that accidentally end up on the wrong website. Please always ensure you are on the OFFICIAL website, and encrypted by HTTPS with the LOCK ICON in your browser. The one and ONLY domain name that we use is:  HAVELOCKINVESTMENTS.COM This is also a great time to remind everyone that using 2 Factor Authentication will one day save your ass. Everyone should enable 2FA on their account for greater securityCheers, James Because when you placed your ASK, there was already a higher BID (at 105.87999). so your order "ate" their BID first, then the rest stayed on the orderbook at the price you requested. sneak peak: websocket is coming too! (should go nicely with the newly finished API)wss://ws.havelockinvestments.com:8443/still a work in progress, but it announces trades at least so far. Mining Assets are based on CAD valuation, converted to BTC at the time of the statement.Q2-2012 - 708 @ $12/btc ~= $8kQ3-2012 - 1107 @ $13/btc ~= $14kQ1-2013 - 98 @ $170/btc ~= $17kTotal assets (mining equip + retained earnings in bitcoins)Q2-2012 - 1071 @ $12/btc ~= $13kQ3-2012 - 1597 @ $13/btc ~= $21kQ1-2013 - 463 @ $170/btc ~=$78k Good thing I price-adjusted the graphs for the latest split 
Difference between "losing" and "expenses" - we're making a lot of capital investments in new equipment (using retained earnings from earlier months), so our net profit/loss might be negative in recent months, but once this equipment comes online, we'll be generating significantly more.  We have over 2TH on pre-order. Your Havelock number is off by approximately an order of magnitude:https://www.havelockinvestments.com/funds.php So your dividend (whatever its amount) becomes a new loan? What if its not enough to run the SD betting pool? What if your dividend is, oh, say 6100BTC? (unlikely, but you never know)SD is paying back your 6100BTC loan, just to take out another loan from you?  or you are personally GIVING SD your dividend? (that doesnt sound like a good deal for you) ? Pushing IN from MPEX is free (click "MPEX Transfer" and paste your push receipt - its semi-automated)Pushing OUT to MPEX is 1 BTC fee (email requests to info@havelockinvestments.com - done manually)Cheers, James Our FULL API is now available for use!  Let the bot trading begin!  If you have an questions/suggestions please let us know!Details, documentation and code samples can be found on the "API Setup" tab Our FULL API is now available for use!  Let the bot trading begin!  If you have an questions/suggestions please let us know!Details, documentation and code samples can be found on the "API Setup" tab Current ~80GHPreorder: ~2500GH - mostly BFL Singles pre-ordered in June/July/August 2012 Thanks, fixed Oops fixed. When we launched, a unit of the fund was approximately ~$30.  Our goal was to always keep the price in the $20-$50 range, to allow individual investors the opportunity to invest without requiring huge amounts of capital.  Back in April, our units were trading for over $400/share ($20/btc and 20btc/unit), so we split 1:10 to get us back down to the range we wanted to be at.By the end of May with the price of btc we were back over $250/share again ($120/btc and 2.xbtc/unit), so we split 1:10 again to get us back down to the range we wanted to be at.Splitting the stock like this creates liquidity in the market without affecting shareholders price in any way.Thanks for your interest in Havelock and HIM. I run Havelock Investments, and I run the Havelock Investments Mining Fund.I don't think its a bubble, I think people are building into the price the fact that BFL will be delivering soon and our hashing power is going to be increasing substantially.Virtex has stated they arent paying share immediately, but plan to do so in the future.  Actually over 11% of the "Tradable" shares (1.442/13=11.09%) im considering updating the site to allow you to specify what fee you want to pay... maybe in the next update!James Trad Engine Upgrade took about 5 minutes to complete yesterday (May 30) around 5PM EST..The new trading engine is now in place.. orders will usually get processed before the ajax-drive page even reloads..... Upon placing orders, there will now be a "Recent orders (last 60 seconds)" box that appears right between the buy/sell forms and the bids/asks list, that way you can confirm that your order was a) placed, and b) possibly already filled.The orderbook page also refreshes via ajax every 20 seconds... (yes, we're working on a websocket to provide live updates too.. just want to finish the API first)There was no other changes in this update, except the code in the trading engine to introduce trading fees (as previously announced), starting at midnight tonight.James Upgrade took about 5 minutes to complete yesterday around 5PM EST..The new trading engine is now in place.. orders will usually get processed before the ajax-drive page reloads... Upon placing orders, there will now be a "Recent orders (last 60 seconds)" box that appears right between the buy/sell forms and the bids/asks list, that way you can see that your order was a) placed, and b) possibly already filled.The orderbook page also refreshes via ajax every 20 seconds... (yes, we're working on a websocket to provide live updates too.. just want to finish the API first)James Wow how did I do that!?  Thanks! all fixed.James Email should come pretty quick, usually within seconds.. check junk/spam folders maybe?James fucking cloudflare... im going to disable cloudflare i guess... anyone know of any alternatives? I'm investigating this problem.... if anyone can give me a specific date/time that it has happened, it would be much appreciated.. i'm not seeing anything specific in the logs or my usual analytics... server load looks fine, network looks fine... wallet server looks fine... maybe i need to tweak some cloudflare settings or something... If you post the payout for the current day, it'll be paid out at the top of the next hour... you do not have to post it for a date in the future.. I wont change the one thats there now, since it has already announced, we'll let it go tomorrow (at 8AM)James
Thank you for posting this publicly! Though no questions was directed my way yet, im sure it was only a matter of time. Thanks!  So what they were shipped at is basically the max (1.20-1.23V) for 13GH. yes they were.. I can confirm.. every power channel on all 5 of mine was pre-set to 1.20V-1.23V. (measured myself)Friedcat: if we have sufficient cooling, how high can we go before they start having problems?  So for the short run time (about 15 minutes so far) i seem to be getting much higher efficiency with Bitminter -- 97-100% .. guess ill stick here for a while! Thanks! Im seeing between 92-93% efficiency. using a local slush stratump proxy on btcguild. Mine seem to max out around 11.5GH each.. i checked the voltage and they're all at ~1.20-1.23V, clock setting: HighFor the people that are seeing 13GH, have you done anything different or tweaked anything in your setup?is that 13GH on the web blade web interface? or as reported by your pool? I have a 3x2 array of 120mm fans at the back blowing air out the front (along the heatsink fins).. i it just doesnt show in the picture because its behind. Figured I should post some pics of my setup too.  The rack cost me about $10 to make (CPVC), everything from RONA. fixed -- need to use a different worker for each blade, cannot specify "-cu" and let them share a single worker. Hmm my stratum proxy is spewing out all kinds of rejects (and my efficiency is hovering around 30-50%) in the blade UI..REJECTED: (-2, u;lowdifficulty', None)im using ./mining_proxy -o stratum.btcguild.com -p 3333 -cu myusernameand on the blades:serveraddress: 192.168.1.200,192.168.1.200    (ip of server running stratum proxy)ports:8332,8332thoughts? Did you find out the dimensions? i too would like to know before they arrive Thanks! Got my tracking number via PM too, thanks! Still waiting on mine, did it come by email? or forum PM? Remember we also have over 1.6TH on pre-order with BFL.. some of which (4-6 singles if i remember correctly) are already paid for by HIM, and the rest have been pre-ordered with outside investor money and the fund will buy them from the pre-order investors with the reserve that we've built up once they are delivered. Our earliest pre-orders date back to June.Cheers, James Paid: https://blockchain.info/tx/79fe340f38435b2309f92fb5e6d39a4edfcb678fa4dd3ab8106ec0a0bae1a9b2 5@50.5cancel 5@48 5@48 Some CCNE somewhere broke the interwebs and got fired. lol. Routing issue this morning. Nothing wrong with the site itself.James
Done! We have around 1.8TH on pre-order (30 BFL Singles)... with some of the pre-orders within the first few days of being available to order.Cheers, James We have just released Phase 1 of our API for open beta testing. It includes access to read-only data, such as ticker data, account balances, and portfolio information.  More functionality to come later, but I wanted to get the beginnings out there so people could start using and testing it and start creating their interfaces and bots!James We did buy some units from this offering.  We bought 120,000 of the 1,000,000 (12%). It was posted ahead of time in the "updates" section of the fund on our site, so people knew in advance how it was going to work. We needed about 30,000 more to satisfy all the bids in our order book at the time, so I apologize I didn't snap up enough... I think people placed their bids on Havelock at the last minute so my guestimate was a little low.They were NOT released as a "public offering" - they were done in the exact same way as MPEX - on the open market with a LIMIT price, where higher bids get filled first, down to the limit price.We'll do the same thing tonight, using an amount guestimated from the open bids in our orderbook.Cheers, James Yea, i had a headache last night and went to bed early, someone shoulda called the office and hit the 999 emergency extension to wake me up!I did however get a fair sized slice of the release tonight... Havelock bought 120,000 of the 1,000,000 shares (12%) released tonight.... we also sold out within seconds of listing them on our site.. i think we could have used another 30000 still to satisfy all the bids on our order book.. ohwell, there's always the next tranche tomorrow night!James Thanks!!! We try our best   We wanted Havelock Investments to be as professional as possible, while still being user friendly. With 15+ years of web development experience (and 3+ years of bitcoin experience) i think it was a good match!  There's far too many 16 year olds trying to make bitcoin websites from their parents basements.... some might succeed, most will fail because they don't have the experience required. A Bitcoin/Financial site isn't really something you can "muddle your way through as you learn web development skills"Cheers, James Can we get a SCHEDULE for the next 4 tranches? or will they be done spontaneously as well "sometime in the future" ? Paid out this afternoon.Cheers, James Soon   The open market self-corrected this pretty quickly. As liquidity grows (we're now at 350000 shares), this will become less likely to happen.James No problem! Sorry to scare you with the few hours of downtime!  and we're now back up James Everything is now operational again, sorry for the downtime!James Hi everyone, we current have a problem with the webserver running Havelock Investments (and Canadian Bitcoins), data center technicians are on their way to fix it.. stay tuned... Hi all our sites are currently down. Server issue. I'm working on getting it fixed... And I'm here too, so ask me anything, send me an email, give me a call, or stop by the office sometime  The bitcoin, which is the virtual currency followersBY JULIEN BRAULT. Business. 19-01-2013 (amended on 17-01-2013 at 09:18)If Jesus had been exposed to bitcoin, it could not recommend it renders to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. Unlike gold coins with the effigy of the emperor of the first century, bitcoin, a virtual currency that has no special authority to vouch only. Nevertheless, the currency looks more and more merchants, who see it as a cost-effective way of doing business on the Internet."The advantage of bitcoins transactions is that there is no central actor as PayPal which can lock an account, for example," said Anthony Gallippi, CEO BitPay that allows online stores to accept currency.At the beginning of January, angels prominent Silicon Valley have invested half a million dollars in BitPay, which is already more than 2000 merchants to accept bitcoin. Anthony Gallippi no doubt the benefits of bitcoin and aims to surpass the 10,000 dealers by the end of the year: "Credit cards are from the 1950s, in contrast to bitcoin, they were not designed for online transactions, "he says.Anthony Gallippi argues that bitcoin is cash internet, insofar as the transactions with this currency remain anonymous and are irreversible: "The irreversibility is a big advantage for small businesses, because it puts protected from fraud where the customer says he has not received the item sent, "he says.The main advantage of currency for traders is that they are charged lower fees when trading in bitcoins. Those who use BitPay are imposed fees of 0.99% of transactions if they want to keep the bitcoins and 2.99% to be paid directly into their domestic currency. By comparison, PayPal, which accepts only national currencies, charges its merchants from 1.9 to 2.9%, and $ 0.30 for each transaction in local currency. In the case of foreign exchange transactions, the rate rises to 3.9% or more.Costly conversionAlthough the second option allows merchants to avoid the risks associated with volatile currency retain, Anthony Gallippi supports about half of our customers want to keep their bitcoins "It allows them to accumulate bitcoins for s' possibly use. For our part, we pay about bitcoin while, until the press officer with whom you spoke. "Often expensive, converting bitcoins dollar a counterweight to lower transfer costs. Based in Ottawa, canadianbitcoins.com is one of the few exchange offices in countries with currency. At the time of this writing, the company bought the bitcoin at $ 12.34 and sold to CA $ 13.72 CA. The currency exchange online only accepts cash and mailed remittances: "We can not accept credit cards, because the transfer of bitcoins is irreversible, and may be subjected to fraud, "said his owner, James Grant.It also operates Lightbox Technologies, a company that provides services to web design, hosting and IP telephony. According to him, accept bitcoin is also a matter of marketing: "It allows me to get the clients I would not have had otherwise, especially telephony, which is very poorly differentiated service," says it.A viable currency?Unlike national currencies, the number of bitcoins in circulation is limited. However, if the currency obtained success provided by its supporters, the interplay of supply and demand could enter the bitcoin in a deflationary spiral. This possibility, mentioned in a report by the European Central Bank entitled "Virtual Currency Schemes" is not a consensus.François Barrière, Vice President, International Markets, Laurentian Bank, dismissing out of hand the possibility: "Right now, it is so marginal that I do not see how demand could create a major deflation," says it.Arvind K. Jain, a specialist in international banking system at Concordia University, abounds in the same direction. According to him, the main risk posed by bitcoin is the opposite of excessive demand "This money will exist as long as people believe in it. If, for some reason, people lose confidence, nobody is there to support it. "Bitcoin THE HOW TO USEThe bitcoin is both a virtual currency and a system of transfer of funds. Based on a peer to peer protocol introduced by a programmer anonymously in 2009, the system keeps a record of each transaction. Transactions take the form of transfers of funds from one address to another bitcoin, which are validated by means of cryptographic evidence. The creation of money to reward those who dedicate their resources to this very thorough validation process. The number of bitcoins in circulation is however capped at $ 21 million. Once this limit is reached, transaction fees will be charged.100 Approximate value, in millions of U.S. dollars, all the bitcoins in circulation.Related articles on his blogiPhone to $ 100: an apple turnover with that?Replace the pencil he keyboard?www.lesaffaires.com/blogues/julien-braultjulien.brault @ tc.tctwitter.com / julienbrault Awesome!Here's the website link if you want to translate it http://www.lesaffaires.com/archives/generale/le-bitcoin-la-monnaie-virtuelle-qui-fait-des-adeptes/553239 Good suggestion, i'll add that to my todo list!James
Thanks for the feedback!The fact sheet isn't needed, because SDICE is not an offering directly with Havelock, its simply a passthrough, you can read the IPO fact sheet on MPEX from the link in the summary/overview page.For the type of order in the trade history, that doesnt really make sense.. because you can't have a BUY without a SELL.. its a "trade", ie, one person is selling and another it buying a certain number of units at a certain rate. The "type" for every trade is both a buy AND a sell.Cheers, James +30BTC registration fee, +dealing with GPGand mpex s.dice 24h high is actually greater than our PO price1D: low: 0.00454703   vwap: 0.00474688  high: 0.0052 so I think we're pretty competitive.Cheers, James Hi everyone, The SDICE public offering we started this morning (our 7th public offering for SDICE) is now approximately half sold out. If you want to get in on SDICE without needing an MPEX account, give us a try!  At the end of this public offering, we will hold 325,000 shares of S.DICE (3.25% of the total publicly issued shares of S.DICE)Havelock Investments has 0 setup fee, 0 trade fees, and 0 transactions fees.https://www.havelockinvestments.com/fund.php?symbol=SDICECheers,  James[edit: changed offering from 500 units to 250 units, for total 325000 share instead of 350000 shares] Havelock Investments has now done 6 separate public offerings for units of S.DICE in our passthru fund. The demand is still there, so we're doing another public offering starting tomorrow January 15th at 10AM EST. This will be for another 500 units (50,000 shares) at 0.48btc/unit (0.0048btc/share). You can buy into it here once it starts.https://www.havelockinvestments.com/fund.php?symbol=SDICEHavelock Investments currently holds 300,000 shares of S.DICE in our passthru fund, this public offering will bring us to 350,000.Cheers! James Always!  Gotta keep my employees busy (and paid! lol)My "day job" is owner of http://www.lightbox.ca we do all kinds of web development, IOS development, etc.  Need something done?  Feel free to PM me or email james@lightbox.orgCheers, James Ask and ye-shall-receive!  Header line added.James Server date/time is now at the top-right in the site header (and thus, on every page)Sorting/Filtering i'm not going to implement for now (maybe later...), I want to keep all the tables as simple as possible, there's already a lot of data to display and adding controls buttons/links/icons to the table will just clutter it even more..I did however, add a CSV download of the transactions table Cheers, James Thanks for the positive feedback and comments!I'll get the date/time/timeline added somewhere obvious this week when I'm back in the office.The qty x/y is the  remaining/total for the orderIe 4/10 means the order was for 10 units total but there's only 4 left for that order.Cheers, James The only user information we collect is email address so that's all that could be provided given a court orderWe are a registered business. Federally incorporated in Canada. Yes issuers have access their unit holder (investors) list which contains two columns: email address and qty ownedCheers,James Theoretically the price will never rise outside of a certain range from MPEX... If there's the demand we'll keep building the size of our passthru which will ultimately make trading SDICE on havelock more liquid.Maybe after this round we'll hold off a few days to let things settle a bit.Cheers, James I certainly expect to be able to!James Well, what would you like to know? I'll answer whatever I can.James Okay I give up copy/pasting. Here's the actual file that does verify:http://www.lightbox.ca/~james/stat.txtJames Hmm I just tried to verify it myself and get bad signature too... Not sure what I'm doing wrong?  I wondered about that... Please try this link:http://paste.ubuntu.com/1503353Note our PO sold out last night so we now own 150,000 shares to cover our 1500 unitsCheers, James Reserved No but that's a great idea, so yes now there is!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=135035.0 Hi all I've had a request for an official thread to discuss or allow feedback on Havelock Investments (the site, not the mining fund). So please, use this thread https://www.havelockinvestments.comCheers, James No problem. Feel free to verify the signed receipt below.  I'm still in the process of purchasing units for our 4th PO (just started tonight) which when it sells out will bring us to 150,000 shares.The extra bitcoins in the balance is personal funds I'm using to make the purchasing smoother (not having to wait for funds from PO to be transferred to mpex.. Instead I can purchase shares as the PO sells or even pre-buy a bit to make sure I have the units shares covered)Cheers,James-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1Holdings for James Grant (fingerprint 08AEAC40F3086E6131B39762A49472A32D4FCE50)Issued today, Sunday the 6th of January 2013 at 02:31:18 AM (0.66629600 1357439478)To certify that the aforementioned holds as of the quoted time the following with MPEx :      CxBTC x 86.09931590      S.DICE x 140`000To which add orders in the book fully paid in advance :To which add sums deposited as surety for 4th Friday settled option and future contracts :To which add sums deposited as surety for underwritten IMM date settled option and future contracts :Your transactions since 1 hour before your last STAT :You have also been paid dividends, as follows :The Great Seal of the exchange has been duly applied.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.5 (GNU/Linux)iD8DBQFQ6OH2khT8a/G2mSERAnR1AJ9imdwuz/BqfTOjryteCs6OKou3QQCdFNM1FoVTIcptyNGAzrYHzPYunDI==lpuq-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- Excellent! I thought I saw it there somewhere!
Sorry what kind of proof are you looking for? That the fund at havelock investments exists and is legit?Or that we actually own the shares of S.DICE on MPEX on behalf of our investors? Or something else?Cheers,James Interesting idea! Ill take a look into that and work out some numbers. Doing a conversion like that (if even possible with mpex) would be a manual process so there'd likely have to be a fee associated with it. Hi, thanks for the feedback! The intent of the 95% being revisited every three months was to allow it to possibly be increased in favour of investors, not decreased. I should have been more clear on that. Ill update the description on the site shortly!I've also got another update to post regarding the fund.. It'll go up shortly!Cheers, James Havelock Investments now has a passthru fund for MPEX:S.DICE toohttps://www.havelockinvestments.com/fund.php?symbol=SDICECheers, James Hi Everyone, we've decided to launch our own S.DICE passthru fund on https://www.havelockinvestments.com/fund.php?symbol=SDICE to allow others to invest in S.DICE without the need to spend 30BTC to setup an account on mpex (and figure out all the GPG complexities)We have a public offering of 500 units (for 50000 shares) live right now, and will issue more if demand is there. 1 unit of our fund = 100 shares listed on mpex.  We'll pay dividends of 95% of whatever mpex pays us.Cheers, James Shipment received! Singles up and running.  Kludge, you can release the escrow to camolist. Thanks!Cheers! Sending coins now! He's going to ship Wednesday for Friday delivery! Agreed (for purpose of escrow)2x BFL FPGA Singles2x USB cablesNO POWER supplies/cables I also have a CAD withdraw pending since November 4th (almost 3 weeks), the OP has been pending since October 23rd. (now exactly 1 month!)What confidence do we have that we will be able to withdraw with CAD in the future? What is your "regular" estimated processing times for CAD withdraws? A one day public holiday in Japan doesnt mean that there wasnt 4 other weeks that this order could have been processed.Every time I have contacted support (and I suspect the OP too) its always the same templated reply "we are waiting for the bank to process", now we know that our requests arent even being investigated by support, since when this was finally was, your realized you "didnt have the money"... If it is routinely going to take between 2 and 4+ weeks to get a withdraw processed, then that should be clearly stated on the withdraw page so customers know what to expect.If you "dont have the money" in the right currency, then GET IT! we pay MtGox enough in fees (especially on the non-matching currency order fills) that if you offer a service (such as trading and withdrawing in CAD) then we SHOULD BE ABLE TO within reasonable expectations unless explicitly stated otherwise.  In this case... knowing that CAD isnt a high volume currency on MtGox, i think a "reasonable expectation" should be that CAD orders are  processed within 5-7 business days of being requested.  This gives MtGox enough time to move money between banks, or between currencies should they have to.Anyways, just my $0.02I guess i should email support and see where my Nov 4th withdraw is too. 2@15 I just finished writing one for fun.... not sure what I'm going to do with it yet, but its live and pre-loaded with enough BTC to cover any big wins.  Give it a try and let me know what you think! open to any/all feedback No RegistrationInstant Deposit (0 confirmations)http://bitcoinslots.lightbox.orgCheers! okay just working with sipa on IRC, and tried a patch which has now solved the problem for my specific case.The fix is here: https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin/commits/fixmovehopefully that'll get into the next released versionThanks sipa!! I'm having the exact same problem here on 0.7.1>bitcoind move fromaccount toaccount 2just hangs the RPC, and blocks all other RPC commandsi dont know if the "connection timeout" right after the "method=move" in the logs is from the move, or just from all the other stuff its doing (probably the later)debug.log shows:ThreadRPCServer method=moveconnection timeoutbut my only way to recover from this is1) "bitcoind stop"2) wait for the debug log to be pretty much done, just waiting on the ThreadRPCServer3) kill -9 <pid of bitcoind>4) bitcoind -daemonNothing fishy going on at all, its a pretty empty wallet, just put some stuff in it to test a web-app im working on.... this makes the web-app completely die as well, as it doesnt even throw an exception in PHP, it just sits there waiting forever, until the php script times out.Any suggestions?! Just noticed this thread, sorry i dont watch the forums as closely as i should.As someone else already mentioned, sometimes payments made over the weekend dont appear in our bank account until monday morning, so thats the earliest anyone should expect to receive coins for orders placed over the weekend._sometimes_ the deposits do appear sooner, and _sometimes_ (if someone is around) we process orders over the weekend, but it shouldnt be expected or relied on... we're a real business, in a real office, that holds regular offices hours.. mon-fri 9-6 there's usually someone in the office.Cheers, James For extra security we have now added 2 Factor Google Authenticator support to the website. the www.cavirtex.com website was updated today! fresh new design. Sorry for not keeping a good watch on this forum thread, we have, indeed, been focusing on actually running the mining operation and maximizing profits I was coming here to post that the public offering today has just under half the units remaining, but you beat me to it, thanks!We have also just released our September Financial Statements, as well as Quarterly Q3 StatementsWe have also posted an update regarding our move to ASICsThanks for your interest in Havelock Investments!Cheers, James This differs from a bond type offering...we are not paying out 100% of the revenue (or even 90%).. we are aiming to pay out approximately 50% of the revenue, and use the other 50% towards reinvestment in the fund itself.  So by simply owning units of the fund, you take advantage of us managing the equipment AND using some of the revenue generated to buy MORE equipment, without having to dilute the fund by issuing more units.  By doing this we hope to counter the affects of rising difficulty, so we can keep our dividend consistently high.Cheers The original IPO has ended, but we launched a new (much smaller) one today. There are 40 of 50 units left from the current IPO, and it should be listed on the current/upcoming IPO page (checking... yup!)We're expecting shipments of new equipment throughout the next few weeks, so we'll slowly be releasing new public offerings as soon as the equipment is ready immediately available to be purchased by the fund.There's also other big news coming soon (in the next day or two!)... stay tuned!James Mine were each charged 13% HST on the way in (Ontario).. i was expected to pay it at the door when they delivered it
Not even a question? (or troll?  ) Hi all, we have recently soft-launched http://www.havelockinvestments.com, with our first fund, the Havelock Investments Mining Fund. IPO on now. IPO: 125 unitsUnits Remaining: 100 (as of writing this post)Units issued after IPO finishes: 225IPO Unit Price: 4.60BTC/unitDividend: 0.2BTC/monthNo, we are not listing on GLBSE... we have other plans... so doing everything internally on the site for now.Any questions let me know.Cheers, James Grr, installed, rebooted, computer wont even get to BIOS or GRUB now...  gah! i gotta go do  "real work" now, have to attempt again tomorrow. thanks for all your help so far. Downloading and installing.. taking forever.... will report back when it finishes. Nope it installed automatically when i plugged in the BFL Single.Right click Com3->Properties->DriverDriver Provider: FTDIDriver Date: 4/10/2012Driver Version: 2.8.24.0 No its a fresh install -- i shrunk my linux partition, and setup a dualboot with the dell-provided windows vista CD, let it do all its windows updates, downloaded chrome, downloaded easyminer. Nope, only the one listed in Device Manager->Ports (COM & LPT)  -> USB Serial Port (COM3) Nope still the same problem, I've tried the various compatibility modes as well, still no luck.  Also, tried it on a windowsXP VM i had here (VirtualBox) and get the samet thing!No arguments from my side about window (especially vista) sucking, so that begs the question, where's the linux based firmware updater??  I don't want to use your easyminer software to mine, i just want to flash the singles then put them back on my Linux machines.James Hi, I have my BFL's up and running but wanted to flash them.. the only windows machine I have here is running VISTA (my normal mining is all on Linux), so i grabbed the EasyMiner_V_1.1_Beta to see if I could flash one with the higher firmware, but cant get it to run.... my device manager shows the one BFL Single i plugged in properly on COM3 (well COM3 appeared when i plug it in), but when I open EasyMiner, (the only option available is "administrative mode") and click "Proceed", I get the windows dialog "BitFORCE-Miner has stopped working  A problem caused the program to stop working correctly. Windows will close the program and notify you if a solution is available"Any idea how to fix this?James Was out of the office for a week, mine arrived May 17th Order Date: 03/08/2012Confirm/Payment Date: 03/08/2012Quantity: 6Emailed Sonny for an update last week, no reply. http://50.19.139.134/  directory index is on too theres a few other files there,,,, none output anything else bad tho sorry, am i missing something? who would pay $600+ for 180MH??? He can code, but can't create his own Bitcoin forum account? Thanks for the props cdnbcguy   we try hard to keep people smiling!Cheers,James www.canadianbitcoins.ca works too   we have both, we just use the .com as the 'main' address.Cheers, James kinda late reply, but feel free to call www.canadianbitcoins.com @ 866-611-7092Cheers, James Hi Steve,You can use http://www.canadianbitcoins.com to sell your bitcoin.  Small premium for the convenience of not needing an account or anything and get money within an hour via interac email transfer in Canada. Everyones entitled to their opinion.  We've done quite a bit of volume so far and feedback has been positive overall.. people like the simplicity and speed of it... its not supposed to compete with cavirtex, rather compliment it.Cheers Its currently based of the bitcoincharts JSON feed for USD, then converted to $CAD, then the buy/sell spread applied.The stupidly high wire transfer fee's and other ways of getting BTC out as real $CAD money was the main reason I setup the site to begin with... I was as fed up as every other Canadian, so decided to take matters into my own hands :pJames
