We should expect sub 200s soon. Every attempt to go beyond 260 failed miserably and price could go as low as 120 for some short periods of time. If you take bitcoin as a technology, you don't have to think in 5-10 years timeframe. Technology is fast-paced and so is Bitcoin. This will get lots of people with their guards down, hoping there is plenty of time to buy or sell. But price can triple within weeks and go to one third even faster.  People are packing for the ride? The market is oversaturated with 3600 daily coins. Unless many people get in, there's no way but down. I'd expect 150 soon. It's just in case discussion gets really offtopic. Next bull run will be epic. Longer we stay at these levels, higher and faster it's gonna climb. We don't know when it's gonna happen but chances are it will be BEFORE next halving and will occur during world-wide economic distress (which is about to happen soon, once the dollar get's down hard).I am not a bulltard, I just recognize some facts. Bitcoin is similar to gold and WILL take off. Also, chances are that many will leave the game before the next bull run. Weak hands will sell and weakest souls will leave for good. This rocket has limited seats. Have you bought one? Have you prepared your launch (I mean, lunch) box? If you have a ticket, fasten your seat belt already. It's better to have it fastened before the launch, if you see what i mean. Risto, didn't knew you're into Christianity.Completely off-topic: have you ever thought that Bitcoin might be that mark of the beast Revelation talks about? Nobody shall buy or sell?  Putting a diagnostic on mental illnesses is the most difficult act in medicine, because it can be very subjective. At no time any inexperienced person should make a statement like that, be it just a harassing technique. We all have specific personality traits more or less prominent. For example, people in here might me more paranoid than the rest but that doesn't mean they're pathological. I never trusted Coinbase and now I have my reward. It seems they lied big time. Nothing personal but I wouldn't trust anyone that lies with any kind of amount of money, and I hope they go down like a rock. Tthis affects, once-again, very deeply the image of Bitcoin.Not that many people can understand that a free concept, like Bitcoin, can be used by anyone for any means. I invite anyone to join a long-term topic on how you think bitcoin is going to behave. You can speculate, smart guess, comment on any timeframe you want, from hours to years (short, medium and longterm). You can also post comments on things (news, developments etc) that you think affect price, either up or down.So far, we are seeing the first cryptocurrency in it's most prolonged bear market ever. Price declined steadily for last 14 months and no sign of recovery yet. Even if we had some pump-and-dumps along the way, we're still at 220 USD.My sincere thought is that we'll see mind-blowing lows (I won't give any target because that's pretty much impossible) and afterward the market will recover fast, so fast it will be prime time news.  Why do everybody awaits their golden knight Wallstreet, Winlkevii ETF or other 'big' companies to save them??Do you really need those fuckers to come? Bitcoin is free, is decentralized, anyone can join. I'd prefer 10,000 new peasants with $100 each instead one big, psychopathic company to join.  Possible? Always was. But now it becomes more and more probable. I like it how some people just scratch the surface while others really take time to study. This is the difference between a looser and a winner.But there's a bigger problem: since we never got past $310 we might see sub $150 again soon. And as much as people say that would be a double bottom, it won't and the price will crash so hard that 235 will seem like a dream. Sell the news as they say.... This is no rally, is just delusional upswing. It will die soon, when Coinbase counter ends.The thing is, price can be 310, 350 or even 370 at that time. So everybody will short like hell, maybe we'll see sub-200s again. I don't usually write in speculation forum, but here's what I have to say. Guess: DPR will face a difficult trial. Most likely, it will take at least 12 months to get a verdict, assuming he's not gonna plea guilty. Fact: FBI HAS some +170k coins  . Valued at about 30 mil USD, they cannot sell them on eBay/MtGox/Bitcoinica. They can keep them (they can invoke some reasons for that) or auction them AFTER the trial. The problem is, while BTC rises in value, the US Govt gets a fuckin' ton of BTC (money is not important). But power it is.Meanwhile little boys and girls, bears, bulls, whales, manipulators, speculators and ever single living person knowing about bitcoin were busy "making profit", big guys had a solid agenda. Don't be fooled even for one second that they were chasing SilkRoad, to shut it down because it sold drugs and guns. No. They were chasing down a movement. They were chasing bitcoin. Even if they didn't confiscate any coins, they would still be winners because they shut down the first, biggest illegal bitcoin marketplace. Cum laudae.So, what can be done about this? One hard thing. Take out your coins from exchanges, into your wallets, make stashes, unite, fight. Create 100 silkroads. 1000 exchanges. 10,000 services and business.  Would you mind to post the reasons for making me an idiot? Just trying to see how many of the wealthiest owners are willing to give me coins for nothing, without getting anything in return, without knowing me (who knows what psycho I could be) and what I would do with them (I could buy guns, a fast car and drive it irresponsibly)Adding the fact that there's a rally going on.So if you don't own at least a few hundred coins, nice home, good health, maybe some gold and silver DON'T send anything because you need them for sure more than I do.182wuEkLXYbz5Mry2Fkdi858A7QDeyxmghSent with all the love in the world from a place you all can see. There are many things i don't understand about the bitcoin economy.Is it good that there are so many services accepting bitcoin? There should be more support from the community, for example people encouraging each other to trade, to use the services? Or we should let the market decide, and only the best to win?Is it ok with you that a service should die because nobody is interested (yet) about it? I saw some threads on art, and as far as I can see, people in here are not interested in buying drawings. So, the guy that sells drawings now, will stop drawing for bitcoins (in the optimistic case). Do you want to buy old Z80 games on audio cassettes? I have some 50 cassettes, each with 5-10 games on it. Hi, I'd like to present you in the Christmas Eve a new site accepting Bitcoins: Norebo Games.http://norebogames.webs.comSo far with a ripped design and free hosting, but if it works we'll improve it!Have fun playing games.
