Is anyone going to DragonCon this weekend?  If so, would you like to meet up for a beer or two and talk about our favorite libertarian conspiracy theories?I'll be there from Friday evening through the end Monday afternoon... it should be fun!  I'm hoping to hook up with some fellow Libertarian-minded friends from my past, so it should be fun!I've reserved a suite at the Ritz where you can crash if you need it.Let me know! I've been trying to use this site, but was stopped when I bid 30 BTC for an auction.  I paid the seller directly, but have been unable to bid or list new auctions since, because the site thinks I owe it money.The thing is that I was able to create a new account, without any issues, and continuing to sell and buy.Can you trust a site that won't allow private transactions?  I paid the buyer, who offered me feedback, and yet the site still wants me to pay through some magically unavailable gateway.I would love to send the admins my comments, but they have no way to contact them on the website...  No e-mails, no phones, no, well, anything.The moment someone else introduces a marketplace with transparency, and real-world contacts, is the moment I say goodbye to BiddingPond Would anybody be interested in a lightweight, dependency-free Java library to talk to bitcoind?I'm thinking about writing one for an idea I have.Would love your feedback! How about I also ask BrightAnarchist to be a trusted escrow agent?  Would that make bidding easier? Oh, and I'll clean the keyboard before I send it... I used it in the field non stop. :-) LOL, I can't find the power adapter for it, but when I do, I'm going to re-list it.  I also need to re-format the hard drive and re-image it.Here's the actual item, FYI:http://imgur.com/xa9B9.jpghttp://imgur.com/xgSlK.jpgAs you can tell from the serial panel, I've upgraded both the RAM and the Hard Drive.Hold tight... if I can't find the power adapter, I'll buy a replacement this weekend.Also, I'll be listing it with a 5,500 bitcoin minimum when I relist it. http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=45Go ahead, see if I'm serious!
