Is anyone working on implementing this? Hello,I am a tech guy, without too much knowledge about economy, but a certain amount of interest in it. This is an economical question, so please don't make it unnecessarily political. I understand that these things relate, so I wanna emphasize the unnecessarily in this statement.Lately I kinda miss the discussion about the Euro crisis. So I wanted to see what's up with exchange rates and stuff. I am still not sure, but I saw something else that made me wonder. In 2001 when the Euro came to be as actually used money (even though it was virtually around since 1999) the exchange rate was from 1 EUR ~ 0.85 USD to ~ 0.95 USD in it's early days. I remember how back then everyone was like "Oh my god, will the EUR have a chance to replace the USD with all these economies working together now?"That attitude of course changed since then. Before the (world's) financial crisis I remember that there was something strange. Both China and the US tried to artificially devaluate their currencies to increase exports. The Euro had a trouble, because it was too stable and most European countries depend heavily on exports (more than the US, less than China). Everyone was like "It's great, we can buy cheap stuff from the US, but oh my god, we focused too hard on a strong Euro, maybe we should reduce those measures".Things changed again. Meanwhile everyone talks about how weak the Euro is. Everyone is like "Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain, ... The Euro isn't going to be worth anything soon". And now what I don't get about it: The current exchange rate is 1 EUR = 1.337 USD (lol nice value, just looked at the European Central Bank's website, giving out the currency).  That's a huge increase.Now I understand that the US economy, like most economies really suffer these days. However, nobody is like "Oh my god, the USD won't exist anymore soon or they will split, ... PANIC", like in Europe. Okay, that changed in Europe too, but the current exchange rate isn't any different from what it was over the last few years. In fact it's even lower, so people should be panicking more.Or is it actually the other way round? Should Europe actually be heading towards a lower exchange rate?)Sorry, I am sure these questions seem really dumb, but like I said. I am just a tech guy and I've got to start somewhere. I guess I should read books or so about it, but I really have a long list already.  I learned that Japan has a pretty hierarchical society (correct me, if it's not true!), but sexuality is something, personal, individual that basically puts everyone on the same level or even creates a completely different hierarchy. I think it could be related to this, but also be completely wrong here. On the topic:...a state of mind. About prostitution I feel like there are relationships that (sadly) are built the same way or in other words prostitution becomes legal after marriage, which doesn't make sense either.Other than that I think it should be legal, because it is a freedom and it should never be forced, just like any other work. It is a neutral question. Either you think it should be illegal or not. I think it's ridiculous for either or these things to be illegal, but I want to know what other people's opinion is.For further reference consult Wikipedia:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homelessness_in_the_United_States#Criminalization_of_homelessness@niko: Yes, that's what I mean and I agree, although I consider it way worse than failing to provide shelter.Other than that the question is somewhat coupled with "having an address", which is a requirement for many things. I think one wouldn't even get a postbox without one, right? What is your opinion? tl;dr: If money is never yours, how can it be stolen?A few thoughts on money, taxes and how you are not stolen.Many libertarians call taxes a way of stealing money (or wealth) from people who have it.I don't think that can be considered true, because money is never yours in first place. So if you invest all your work and effort into getting something that never is yours anyway then complaining about it being taken away seems kinda foolish, doesn't it?Look at your dollar bill. It says it isn't your property. So how can it be stolen.Another thing is that stuff that you own and is your property is usually something you can do with whatever you want. However, you aren't allowed to do so. You aren't even allowed to destroy it, for example burn it (hey, it's winter! Brrr..). It's even worse: Doing so is considered a sign of mental illness.Maybe that's also a question to lawyers. If something I have is basically not mine, or even worse debt, then how can it be considered a crime?The whole thing also sounds kinda authoritarian. I mean the thing everyone cares about and the thing that wealth is measured in can never be yours.All of this doesn't really make sense to me. Maybe someone here can explain how all of this is wrong and hey, maybe someone can even compare it to Bitcoin. Isn't it way more fun? Also does that mean that you [as a libertarian] should be against the kind of money we have right now in first place? Is that a reason why you all are here? I am talking about the combination of these two. The 1000 USD, if devalued will be used up and therefor go to the working people, which use it to basically pay for the inflation. Not?[/quote]Cause it requires people to work, in place of how it is now, where you can lie back and still have what you want.Devalued money, same work: Higher pay than what the difference between working people, who don't earn much money and people that live on welfare is currentlyI am not talking about fixing everything, but making it fairer than it is right now. You pay a different tax depending on how rich you are and receive a different amount of welfare (and that's what I meant with being bound to something) depending on what kind of illness you have, what job you are best at and whether you go to the army.First off working power is not money. I know that, because I don't work a lot, yet receive way more money than people who do, just for sitting on my ass. I usually donate a lot of it, because I feel uncomfortable (seen that donate to EFF/get a humble bundle cheaper thread of mine? I basically donate to all the projects that are about putting power into people's hands (know something?)).Second, it depends on your view of money. The US and China kinda had a competition (and that was in both Bush's and Obama's time) of printing more and more money to basically devalue their debts. So that already happens only that who receive it isn't evened out.What I meant with being added is:Non working guy: 0 + 1000Working guy: 2000 + 1000while minimal income, like a lot of countries have it (even if it's a more complex system) is like:Non working guy: 0 + 1000Part time worker: 800 + 200Hard working guy: 2000 + 0I think from this system you could better work away from stuff like health care, scholarships, family stuff, etc. into the direction where people can choose what's important to them. It also would make administration way easier and therefor make a lot of taxes unnecessary. That's what I am heading for and what I meant with the difference compared to socialism.Compared to the current system, even with money devaluation, really?Well, I didn't expect this to solve all problems, just make things better would be a first step.[/quote]Uh, yep a Bitcoin based economy would be better. I think so too or a society where people are educated. Basically, because I don't think we would have a huge problem with non-workers anymore, but yeah that's why I made that thread. Want to know alternatives and steps to get there. I don't really care, if I am completely wrong with that. I didn't study economy and writing under a pseudonym, so I will at least know I am wrong.I just consider inflation more fair than taxes, because it evens things out more than all the tax systems. I mean either it's unfair for people who simply were like born into a poor family or something and even if they had potential and will to become workers will end up not getting education and stuff and for society that means that they'd lack a Stephen Hawking, because he had the bad luck of being disabled.I also think that it would make a difference to the current system, because I think what really makes people work is society. I mean, no matter who you are you are still a human and extremely influenced by the society you are in. Be in Germany in the wrong time and wrong family and you will very, very likely be a Nazi. I mean same thing basically happened in Rwanda only that nobody intervened, because they were no real threat like Germany. Anyway, just making a point on how big the influence of society. You could say the same about the kind of music you listen too, football team you support or the words you use. And if you want to be different you do the opposite. Still influenced by it.So basically you wanna be rich for society. Be it for your family, for being able to wear nice clothes or to follow your hobbies (if you really hate society).I don't think strong socialism really was killed because of that. I mean, see Cuba (my standard example on this forum). They support US students and African countries, doing much better than other countries in that area, while having the strongest super power as enemy and being financially sanctioned by it. I think that would kill every EU country. Also from documentaries it's kinda weird. Poor people work and are super happy and rich people are like sitting in their villas living there for free and off the state. Seems to work and from people I know from there the poor ones don't just pretend to be happy. Don't saying Cuba is a good country. It actually sucks in most ways, but given these facts I don't think that the criticism from earlier is like completely true and I think the reason actually is society. Okay, now I wonder about whether you know how.The reason is that there are countries in the EU, where you study for free while in the US you have to pay your debt all life long (so it isn't government debt), while the quality (aside from a small elite universities) appears to be the same. Same fir health care, etc. The standard of living appears to be better in Europe (subjectively, but I was at both places to visit friends, so not tourist are) and when I look at studies like from Mercer it seems to be better for you if you were born there.I mean, it's awful what's going on in Greece for example, but then if you compare the average debts of EU and US it's not like they are doing worse. Smartass Idea: Let us get rid of money.  I want a visualization of the yearly interest from that debt.  I didn't write it, but I would say the reason is this:And maybe I should read up on UK politics. I just know that it's neither what it is in the rest of the EU, nor in the US, but while they have a nice currency they seem to still mess up more than both of them, when it comes to money <-> living, regardless of whether you are poor or rich, which is why I never got into that. Other countries seem to do better, but maybe they are just in between and have a good main street. jim618, are you living in the UK. Can you compare it with the US and/or the EU (I mean countries like, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Finland, Sweden, Norway, not Greece, Spain or Italy). Already got so much to read up on and would be happy to know the rough differences.  Okay, maybe that was a bit harsh, but here a few differences from socialism:People don't have like food stamps or a different kind of money. (in some systems, like Cuba)Neither the government nor the workers govern companies.Money doesn't come from taxes that only rich people have to pay and so the system doesn't rest on their shoulders.People will get a fixed amount of money, so a free market and value of stuff can adapt to it (there are no free markets in socialism)The money will in the end go to working peopleYou won't be able to afford any kind of luxury, if 1000 USD are worth even lessPays would therefor (I guess) be higher, so you won't have this "I'd earn as much, if I didn't work" thingIt isn't like a tax, because it's not bound to some specific thing (doesn't matter how rich you are)It is no traditional minimal income, because it is added and doesn't depend on anything and isn't just for poor people/people who don't workI know, it has an effect and if you really read what I wrote you think that it will act like a tax, because the devaluation is bigger for working people, right? Do you really think the effect would be the same even though the gap between working and none working people is probably even higher than now?Also do you think it would maybe still be a better solution to have it like that rather to have this complex welfare system every country has now?If you still think it's exactly the same would you mind telling me why you think it is? Looks like you didn't read my post. I am not saying everyone basically gets the same, like in socialism. I ask about people receiving an addition to whatever they earn anyways. Things would not change other than that. Please, either learn about what socialism is or read my post. I feel more fond about my guesses. I feel like I've been pretty correct with what I considered wild guesses and found out that they actually were kinda conservative.I consider it to be way less occultism and learned that it is way more based on kinda random human behavior than I thought. I now understand that it's more like you can, if you have many "users" (agents?) in a system use statistics and compare them with empirical data to find out what's going to happen, but you can have really bad luck with choosing the data. Most likely I am just really bad at it.This manifested my (wild) guess that economic systems are based on societies and makes me think things could change rather quickly, if people are educated. However, while I consider this to be way more possible (in theory) than before Bitcoin I also consider it to be way harder (practically) than I thought earlier.I now have a more global view on things and an even bigger aversion from generalizing ideologies. They are way too big and too complex and a communist socialist can be closer to to a libertarian capitalist than another communist socialist and vice versa, even if they usually would never acknowledge this to themselves. I am the same, but it doesn't matter, because people seem to do a a pretty good job overcoming this as long as they know what they actually want and aren't just blindly agreeing with what they consider to be their ideology. Makes me think of nationalism and religion/atheism.Last, but not least I learned that money isn't as important as I considered it to be. It's really nothing, but a random tool and whether it exists doesn't really matter at all; just like the free market. Sociology seems to be way more important and as someone who hates it or doesn't even consider it a real science that's probably the biggest change of views.Also politics doesn't seem to matter at all. So basically, if people are stupid, neither money, nor politics won't change that. The same is true for smart people. So all in all being critical in the way a real scientist/researcher/philosopher is (with that I exclude people that just have some title/degree and/or are on TV shows) seems to be the most worthwhile thing. So if you want to change something, maybe figure out how to make people like that and maybe teach them self-criticism. Or just don't care, because nothing matters anyway. Seems to be both true. Hey,I didn't study economics, but I always was interested. With all the discussions about how fair things are these days I wonder whether a system where every single person would receive 1000 USD (like direct from the printing press) could improve things. I am not talking about minimum wage or whatever.What I think (maybe I am completely wrong) could be great about this is that nobody can complain that someone else receives more, because everyone receive the same. Also it wouldn't have to come from other people's taxes, but from kinda devaluing the money making stuff more expensive and therefor causes working people, from the cleaning lady to the manager receiving more money. What I think would be nice too is that the 1000 USD could be exactly what you need to get the most basic things to survive. It will not be that much, because that's what everyone receives anyway. Every person that works will get additional money for luxury good or better survival stuff (better food, etc.).I think it would be compatible with all kinds of ideology, because it's not raising taxes having anyone taking something away from working people (who would most likely earn more, because of inflation), but also not like we don't care about poor people.What do you think?EDIT: Looks like some people didn't read it. So a tldr: I am not talking about some weird for of socialism, where everyone just gets money or something like that, but where you print an additional 1000 USD for every citizen, no matter whether he is bill gates or living on the street. This isn't financed through taxes and doesn't change the social system, property or whatever. Money is being devalued, but not in a different way from the way it is printed now, just in bigger amounts. Okay, for now things are a bit stressy. So for now I won't take any more Bitcoins. Thanks to all of you!  Right. Yeah, I sometimes worry about being a coward about taking positions, but I also really can't completely agree on whatever philosophy one might share and since I can't come up with something on my own, I'll just continue to write such postings. I think many people suffer from this in general, not just in the US (or for being capitalist or whatever). I just think people who love freedom simply can get along better (and actually are doing so so in many places, like here) than what one would actually think when you look at how much they argue about such tiny differences in their opinions.*gulp* You got me!I really considered to buy land on the moon as a child though. Does that count?  Erm... you shouldn't snip everything if you make such accusations. And I always thought even mentally ill people can be right about things, so that statement doesn't really make a lot of sense to me.In a way I think that everyone who doesn't completely resign for rational reasons, has to be kinda insane, but I guess that doesn't really count, because that brings everyone here on the same level. If I missed something, please show me!Also I am curious on what you consider to be my position and what I reveal.
But they also use weird statistics on how good their crime rate is:"New Hampshire is the safest state in the country." and they cite a source that ranks New Hampshire first and New York spot 14.Murders in New York: 26Murders in New Hampshire: 49I don't know how the health stuff is actually calculated, but if you count cancers and have a state where you most likely die rather quickly it would also make health better. Using such statistics doesn't work. It's a major flaw when you create societies based on such pseudo-rational facts and I feel rather sorry and really mean it as productive criticism, but (capitalist) libertarians tend to often argument using such pseudo-facts. I think it relates to the fact that they are way too much into mathematics, but lack skills in other areas. You know, like Euler or Pythagoras were also into other sciences, but these days a lot of people are either into natural sciences or humane discipline, which appears to make people rather dumb. Really, I don't say libertarians are like that or anything, I just kinda want to warn from being like this, cause it could take the liberty we care for so much.You know, being rich and free really isn't just about the money you make or the right to carry a gun. It's also about stuff like being open to people that you might consider to be irrational and the opposite of freedom loving. It's the freedom to agree with them. I think in a truly free society people would love to pay taxes on their own, even if it would be more a form of donation (or investment into future/society/mankind). The real question is how do we get there? Do we get there by giving everyone the freedom to wear guns, pay no/low taxes and be economically/politically/socially independent, which is more like the right wing/capitalist libertarian approach I guess or by giving everyone the freedom to get education, get health care, take risks with always having a social net that will prevent them in case they are not successful with their ambitions, be it because of simply being wrong, bad luck or whatever.I think it takes a sane portion of both of them and doubt that there is a clear rule set that really could be considered best, because you can't measure things like freedom in a rational way, also because the decision to be pro-freedom isn't rational (in the way math is) in first place. Still think we should fight for it, but I doubt it will work out if you take a hard decision on being a left or right libertarian. Instead common sense would make more sense.Despite my criticism, I think that the FSP is an awesome project. It has some parallels with Seasteading, which is even more utopian (btw. don't judge them by their front page. They actually are more serious and way less utopian, than I thought they were). Because I find it weird that these people define freedom by being able to wear guns and and not paying a lot of taxes. Maybe I am wrong, but this sounds like they'd have a very narrow view on freedom. Humble Bundles include them, so you can redeem them yourself whenever you desire.Update: For all bookworms. There is a Humble eBook Bundle now. Of course my offer is also valid for this. My Paypal is nearly empty (but I have a credit card in case there is bigger demand. So, if I get the payment in time you will get your Bundle and if not it will be sent back.http://www.youtube.com/v/UiEcVIGlDYU Thank you, I love your offers!  No offense, but I can't agree with you here. There have been effectively (because of no/just a small overhead) working societies without money, especially around revolution (see the Spanish one). From what you said it's only about bartering. The last thing about an "unsustainable amount of overhead" is just as true in our societies with money.Do you want me to award points?  Okay, here some reflection of things. These are all just opinions and I share them, because it would be nice to hear of other thoughts. Maybe I am completely wrong here and I guess here someone is going to tell me. I know, most of that is like idealism, but it's mainly because I think that one would stall without having something to move towards to.I shouldn't make such statements I guess. The thing is that I am quite individualist, trying to think about what's really important. Just to make it clear: I am certainly not going to call myself a Libertarian Socialist when there will be a party or something basically saying "We are the Libertarian Socialist".Currently I am just fine with calling myself one, because it really seems to fit with my views on things and while I would call myself an Anarchist for being individualistic and sharing both the view that people should be free and independent of politics/religion/... if they desire so I didn't ever feel really connected to some group or something. I know, some people call it theoretical/philosophical Anarchism and maybe that would fit it, but wouldn't it be the same as saying that I prefer to think for myself?It's a bit like when I try to buy quality products from companies that (to my best knowledge) treat the workers well, not treating them in an unfair (completely subjective) way. They can be quite indoctrinating, just like most -isms. On the other hand, being honest here I like to be able to give a few words to describe a lot of my views instead of writing an essay every time. So to me it's a bit like saying "I like <musical genre>". It doesn't mean I wouldn't ever listen to anything else or that I like every piece from the genre. It's kinda what I consider extremism. You know, someone usually becomes a member of a religion or share a political view because he aspires things like peace, fraternity, etc. but it might happen that for whatever reason this becomes an obsession and maybe even causes one to get wrong views (in the sense that that's not at all what the political position or religion is about) on things because of it, doing the exact opposite, causing war instead of peace. One can read a political manifest or the bible and be like "it's about forgiving each other, about piece, freedom, .." and then have an extremist saying it's about killing everyone else.I think capitalism suffers from this. You know, for one it's just about free markets, being a tool on which to build upon, being a great way to cause people to create better, cheaper products and allowing people to not buy from corporations that create low quality products, are intransparent, exploit poor children, etc. Maybe it isn't too good at doing so, but I think it's the best we have got. And for extremists it can mean, that only the capital counts. It's way more important that some guy can speculate, let his computer run its algorithms making food more expensive, supporting people that are unlawfully(!) exploiting/disowning/dispersing/killing farmers in other countries than preventing this, because it's just not where we want to head. My (personal) opinion is that as a free society we should be able to do decide that this simply goes too far. This doesn't mean I want to kill the stock market, capitalism or want anyone to be less free, but simply that money and the free market are tools for people and therefor should never be valued higher than people. In fact I (again personal opinion) don't think life should ever be valued, since it only causes problems.This is what I meant with not becoming a slave to a system/money and why I maybe am not really in some kind of -ism. I have my own set of things that I consider important and try my best to respect anyone elses. However I doubt that someone who maybe does so really wants to make money off poverty. The argument usually is like "someone else would do it" or that you can't forbid it, because it's freedom. But not being able to do so despite of everything doesn't sound like freedom to me.And yeah, that's no study or something, but when you talk to people, no matter whether they call themselves communists, liberals, anarchists, nationalists, Christians, Muslims or whatever. They all basically want the same things and my guess is that it's not because of the party they vote or the country they live in, but because they are just normal, social human beings that are happiest when they can help others. I mean seriously, most (all) people want to be rich, so they have money for their family, because they want to be respected by others and things like that. I don't think one even would have to force someone to not do something. People don't do what they do, because of the law. They do it because of social reasons. It's why you are in an enthusiastic team, you will be enthusiastic too. It's why every decade and society has its fashion and on the sad side also, why there have been genocides where most people, especially the ones "inside the society" took part.The reason you don't murder probably isn't because it's forbidden and the reason you help a friend and try to be polite probably isn't, because someone forces you to. It usually is, because society expects you or because you feel great about this. Maybe it even became some form of value that you follow, that life is important and you don't want to harm it and that friendships are important and go over everything else.It's why I think, thinking and feeling people, that we are don't really need some kind of authority that tells us what to do. It doesn't mean that we can't have some form of government as a mean to organize. Or that we don't have something like taxes to support society, make us feel good about giving something back. Expectations and the will to be someone brings you there. Besides that one can see that one profits living in a rich society. One profits from people being able to get education, research, bringing us the next generation of mobile phones, medicines, whatever. I mean one can even prove it. We have a government and democracies because people wanted to work together making things possible, working together more effectively. At some point people must have decided it is a good things, without anything but their own thought of things being better that way forcing them.Nobody really is satisfied doing nothing. I know there are computer games and stuff, but they in first place a way to escape all the things you are forced to and actually are work themselves. Just like contributing to Wikipedia, an Open Source project, writing a tutorial on this forum or introducing someone to Bitcoin. All stuff that's actually work, but you do it nevertheless.Yes I am sure in a free society people would contribute with money, work, whatever without anyone being forced and without someone "having to die for freedom". Offering 1.5Btw: Hope you will get something nice set in silver again. Sadly couldn't get one the last time. Hey!No, don't worry. I will not try to convince you to Communism or whatever. I just had to smirk when I opened the Wikipedia Article of Commodity Fetishism and not expecting this at all the very first picture was this:It just hits this so well:Btw., no idea how I managed to end up there starting out at Open Society.PS: I'd love to see exactly a shop like this with a big, giant Bitcoin logo on it. Make it happen!  Take one down and pass it around, 82 blocks... *sings* About buying only one bundle: Nope, that doesn't work. I send gift keys that have to be redeemed by the individual and for that reason can't be reused. Of course everyone is free to publish whatever they want and (dis)prove I really get bundles for everyone.  Exciting! Where to party?  This offer is valid again!  I bid 1.5BTC. Yeah, but they are doing lots of weird stuff. I mean kinda itself is odd. Quick example: If you live on the country, you don't have rights and nobody will help you. Also you are pretty much in the middle ages (not an exaggeration!) and support the city population that has insurance and stuff. Now however China is forced to move lots of farmers into cities and actually out of nowhere creates cities with millions of millions of people pulling the population together. Now, just giving them all the same rights as everyone else would kill their systems, but not giving them the rights could potentially cause a few million people to be very angry, especially when they see the huge difference. This could lead to social problems and maybe to something like a revolution, rebels, whatever. On the other hand China is really very good at controlling their people, so that's going to be interesting.Still the "Western World" will most likely lose in the long run, even if both US and EU don't want this to be true. Such things, historically always led into wars and some -ism extremists taking power. Europe with the Euro problems could kill the union, no idea what happens then and the US became really conservative/authoritarian (don't want to use the term fascist here, but if you follow the recent developments..) in the last decade. Also in Europe the conservative authoritarians and extreme nationalist have an easy play these days. So I guess both of them will fall back when it comes to social liberties or are in progress of doing so. When one thinks about the Statue of Liberty and what it is about, how the US in its beginnings also inspired European people to be free and rid themselves of oppressors (French Revolution) then this will actually be a sad end. Well, exciting times. I didn't describe myself as a Social Libertarian because of my view on market systems. I can see that a lot of them suck and maybe (not an opinion, but to make a point) a system without so much abstraction of values (in form of money or commercial papers) would be better. I am honest, I don't know what it is. The reason I described myself as Social Libertarian is that I am for freedom and that I think it should be a right to people and as far as possible not be based on stuff like luck, having rich parents, being healthy, whatever for moral and practical reasons, like the maximum possibility that the individual can contribute to society in the most optimal way, which means the technician should get the knowledge he needs and the artist should be able to create art for minorities and give it to as much people as he likes to. I mean we are human, being social, helping others out, not being what most people call completely logic is maybe what brought us so far. I think humanity would be able to create a society where everyone is well supported without anyone having to feel like something is taken away or at least is fine about it making it an act of free will, cause like I said, humans usually are very social.So what I meant to say is that it isn't just about currency and money to me. I mean I am currently "forced" to earn money to live, but by doing something I like I actually make more than I'd need (currently). I described myself as an anarchist, because I think people free and not be a slave, neither of a dictator of a market system, unless they really want to. Freedom isn't just about money, markets and politics though, so there are many things that would shock me more than that.What I think is worst about the current system, both politically and financially is that people are prevented from living from work they are good at. There are people that are unemployed, but really want to work, people that were doctors, but went to another country for whatever reason and end up driving around people in taxis instead of for example creating the technology of taxis that drive on their own. I know, that's like the ideal world and maybe not completely realistic, but preventing people from working and feeding themselves and the people they love seems to be kinda stupid in a society that on the other hand "simply" wastes what would allow someone to live without doing anything at all.Nope, I am not shocked by free markets at all. I think that a free market would be a tool that would allow us to create a society where bad things are more easily prevented. See, I don't think a capitalist is a soulless monster wanting every poor person to die. What we have now is a system where a lot of people are like moaning about how the government takes taxes, yet I guess most people would not be like "uh, who cares about this guy dying?" and some people seem like moaning, because they don't really have another reason to. I mean really, what kind of whiner is someone who complains about having to invest into a system that grants everyone including himself access to what he needs to survive? Of course it isn't great if it's like money being taken away and stuff, but seriously when it's invested into granting someone the privilege to survive by (exaggerated) lowering some number on a sheet of paper of computer screen and you don't then you must be a mentally ill person with most likely no friends. You are pretty much acting like a drug addict and I wouldn't call someone with an addiction to be free.But like I said, it would be better if people had will to make something better and as social being that's one of the few things that doesn't come from outside. People want to help and contribute in some way, if they don't then it's usually a mental thing (including still sane stuff like adolescence or simply having a bad day). So this is another big problem of the current system. People always want to help, but they are like forced/money is taken away and so they suddenly don't want to.And seriously, whether it is the government or whoever doesn't matter. I think Ron Paul, like many others often tend to use the term liberty in a way that reminds me of an extremist, who wants something and then forgets why and also what it really is about. You know, a bit like all the religions where people are like "we are all children of god and should love each other" and suddenly end up in wars against each other, possibly because some self-proclaimed authority says "in the name of our religion". Most governments do something similar and I don't know, maybe they don't even do that in bad faith, maybe it was their sick education, the corruption of power or whatever.Anyways, if you think liberty is about letting people die in the hospital then I'd say you didn't get it at all.Some people are like you aren't allowed to be nice if you are liberal and Ron Paul talks about freedom and on the other hand sometimes(!) is like "the government isn't allowed to do this and isn't allowed to do that", with arguments like that's not the government's job and maybe he is right, maybe we should get rid of the government, not talking about a violent revolution here, but more like hey, we have Bitcoin now, hey there are a lot of people who actually love what they do and the bad stuff can be done either by people who like to, by robots or whatever. And hey lots of people like to teach others what they know and want to become the best at that and so they do it. Works for open source, works for lots of people doing great work, because they are not forced to and hey all this government, capitalism and whatever stuff maybe also was made by people who just thought they could it better. Maybe it was needed, maybe it still is, but maybe we won't in future or all of this goes into a wrong direction. Again, I don't know and the reason I asked the question this thread is about actually is that I want to know. Maybe I am completely off track, chances are actually quite good with so many different opinions. However, I think I am fairly right when I say that systems we create (or at least use/follow) should make things better and are in no way a self-purpose and I don't think we should say the free market is a justification for letting people die, just not like communism, socialism or whatever. So a question that made me wonder for a while now is how (according to Wikipedia) the US can have more than twice as much debt (per citizen) compared to the EU and the EU and the Euro, which still is stronger than when it was when it started out compared to the USD is said to have trouble and people don't trust it.Well, being a Bitcoin fan and relatively independent of the Euro, as well as being an Anarchist/Social Libertarian and so don't really care about countries. Also don't know in which one I'll stay in the long run, so please don't answer with EU/US is better. I am more interested into how that from an economical perspective makes sense and I don't know a better forum to ask.Oh, actually the reason I ask is that I don't really get how most European countries can have so much welfare compared to the US. I know there is taxes and stuff, but still when I compare the US friends and the EU friends incomes (don't know it from everyone, but quite a few) then it seems to be about even. Are there statistics? What they are able to afford appears to be about the same. Does anyone sell Cafe Libertad for Bitcoins and ships to Europe? This offer is temporarily suspended!tl;dr: Send me an PM mentioning this thread. You'll get a Bitcoin address and as it receives at least 0.50 Bitcoins you'll get a Humble Bundle. All money that foes to such an address will go to Humble Bundle/EFF.So, everyone loves games and everyone loves EFF. I do so too!And I have an offer. If you send a PM, I'll send you a Bitcoin address and if that address receives at least 0.50 Bitcoins I'll send you the gift code for a Humble Bundle that paid more than the average and therefor included all games. I didn't prebuy them (if anyone has an idea on how to prove it (I'm using Paypal), then tell me). This means I'll add whatever is needed to get over that current price at the time I am buying. This will be true at least until the bundle reaches 10$ (yeah, sorry, it's not much, but I am doing this because I want to support EFF, Bitcoin and Humble Bundle).Since this is to support EFF my default will me to give everything to EFF, but if you don't like that idea, tell me what you want and it will be like that.So again, what do you get?All games of the Humble Bundle, for less than the averageBut still donate more than the average, just for using BitcoinsNo need for Paypal, no feeSell your Bitcoins at more than what you'd get everywhere elseSupport EFFDo you like this or want to spend more? If you want to say thank you send a donation to the address below, if you spend more on the bundle, I promise that all profit made from this go to Humble Bundle or EFF.If you have any ideas on how to make this more transparent without adding costs, I am open for it. I'd also make your payment address public here or somewhere else, if you want me to, so everyone can see how much you donate and if there is a way to show you donations/paypal transactions/... I'll show you.I have the right to end this offer at any given time, but I'll still donate everything to Humble Bundle or EFF. Sorry folks, but I have to take precautions, in case this gets too much or whatever. You'll get your HB or your Bitcoins back. I guarantee. Even if my wallet for that gets hacked. I have a very secure offline one and would also buy the money, but it really shouldn't happen, since when you get your address I'll ASAP buy your bundle and send you the link.If you have any other suggestions, please tell me (even if it means I have to pay a bit more). I'm really eager to get as much money for Humble Bundle and EFF as possible. They are doing an awesome job. Also, of course you could just send me Bitcoins that go to EFF or the Humble Bundle, but that's just an option and I am sure there are people that you'd trust more.PS: Yes, Paypal is bad. I just thought I'd use up my money on the account in nice ways, before I close it.Bundles bought up to now: 8Donation address: 1BpiYUZXnhpnw72Z3oCTnXFJhhzemEVJ7N (Do NOT donate here, if you want a Bundle!)Everything that goes to this address will run into this offer, which means it will ultimately be donated Humble Bundle and/or especially EFF, which supports YOUR privacy. I am also willing to donate to other projects, if I can do so via Paypal. So if you want to use your Bitcoins on something good, I am willing to help you and willing to show a proof if I can/you tell me how.Humble Bundle: https://www.humblebundle.com/EFF: https://www.eff.org/ According to recent research it actually appears that humanity was way more social and peaceful (way) before there were real (written) laws. Maybe one should have a look at small tribes that are completely untouched by the so called civilized world.My personal guess (and really just a guess) is that numerous bad sociological events (see the middle ages) caused society to not be able to respond to it in a good way, because everyone remembers how something went really wrong. Therefor everyone things laws are important, which seems to be wrong, if you take a look on how unwritten laws that in a way are enforced by society (giving certain reactions) are way more closely followed.Or just things where as a child you hear "No, don't do that".A lot of cruel things are not, should not and can not be enforced by laws anyway.One could also think about social animals (that still are more individual than ants for example), like elephants, which when it comes to social structures and also dealing with death, etc. are actually really close to the humans (choose another animals if you want) that usually are kinda peaceful and social when dealing with others of the same species. Same for apes and stuff of course. So, since they are doing so well and humans seem to (genetically) be more social I doubt that the lack of hard punishments really cause problems. Punishment in these cases does not mean to be killed, being robbed of all your belongings or be caged for many years of your life. So I actually doubt that it can change so much more for humans. I think, mainly psychopaths (in varying degrees and I don't really exclude myself) want to have a weapon, but still think people should be able to get guns. Not just because of thinking everyone should have the right too, but also since mass murderers get them anyway/don't need them.
Which is also a bit funny. A gay person, who really badly wants to marry can't be very authoritarian? What if he is the dictator and says like "uhm, I hereby forbid heterosexual couples to marry". Extreme example, but there are numerous homosexuals (no offense!) leading authoritarian parties, even if there was no outing, so... Even though I think this tests has some "flaws", because in most cases people might be like "depends on details", especially when you start to actually think (as in philosophy) about them. Here is my result: Yeah, it's kinda weird anyway. I mean you could say the same about democracy. Every democracy ultimately failed at some point. To make it simple. If there was no democracy in Germany at this time no Hitler could have been elected.But that's not what it is about. Sadly puristic views lead to problems. You know, like the US would have failed if it was really democratic, China if it was really communist, ...I often wonder how Cuba does it. How can it survive? They have critics in the country that vocally complain about things, but unlike China for example they aren't treated badly. They still have their huge awesome mansion for free, with free health care, free food, ... and are not being silenced at all. Now, that's not it. What I don't get is that they are sanctioned by the US which would ruin a lot of other countries. Still compared to their neighboring countries they are doing really, really well.Well, I am not a communist. I like a few ideas, like people being on one level, but that's in no way what Cuba is about. They are an authoritarian dictatorship, so basically the exact opposite of that. Still there are a lot of people that don't just pretend to be happy (which also exists there (which is bad (dictatorship and so on))). So I sometimes wonder whether there is something that Cuba does or doesn't have that makes people happy despite being considered poor by the rest of the world.That's also a philosophical question. If people are really(!) happy with something then wouldn't it be wrong to take that happiness even if it means there isn't some freedom. I guess the question is whether they'd really want it, but how could they know?Related to this. Is it possible that "western" (what's often called "capitalist") countries or societies actually have a huge problem with grief that makes people unhappy? It's just because a lot of us don't know how they could be happy if they would have to live without electronics for example.And to for the purpose of making a point. Humanity ten thousand years ago. They were also happy. They did lots of things that enabled us to have the research. It was later that stuff like slavery came up or the dark age. And stuff that's said to be good, like a long life. Does it really make happy? In general it somehow seems that people get more and more unhappy about stuff and also lose motivation, which maybe prevents us from getting further.I don't have the slightest idea whether any of this is true and not even how to change it, but I am sure there are a lot of people here that would be willing to share their thoughts on this. Haha, it's true. US sucks, like every other country. Maybe even a bit more. Same is true for North Korea, Russia, ... Let me throw something in too: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netsukuku I think politics is something that fails to evolve. It's why the same things have been repeating over and over for a few thousand years now, just becoming more dramatic. I think we need research, try completely new things, because with all these failing systems we don't have too much to loose... or lets say it differently. We loose anyway, if we don't try. I don't care, both Seasteading and the Venus Project at least look like ideas. Yeah, maybe they will fail. Maybe they will fail badly, but have a look at how things are running. They fail too.Maybe we need countries to go their own way, maybe we need to forget about the concept of countries at all. Maybe we need a world government, maybe we need way smaller, independent communities. Maybe we need nothing like that at all. But hey.. lets give it a try? In the country where I live we always (since WW2) had health care that worked pretty well. Free for everyone, extremely high quality, so many politicians from other big countries came to "our" hospitals (maybe you can guess where now). Then these idiots decided to change it (for the sake of it/make it a freer market) and now it's messed up. They did exactly the same with education causing a huge drop in education and health care index. It's still better than in other countries, but it really sucks how they can mess up so much, if you just have the wrong government for a bit. I don't care if it is free market or kinda socialist (like it was), if the quality is right, but why do they change something that used to work really well and stuff like the PISA study or the WHO (and foreign politicians of big countries being taken care of) said so? Why do politicians sometimes just love to break stuff. Now both sectors got problems with both financing (yes, they actually MADE money in that old socialist system! Doesn't that sound awesome?) and quality.Sorry for being OT. I think it's a bit early to say whether it is good. You should maybe give a system ten, twenty years and then see how it was compared to the ten, twenty years before. I mean if you have a war/financial crisis/recession/... you just can't instantly compare it. Also you have to take a lot of things into account. Usually it also takes a while until it works smoothly. A bit like some computer programs. Libertarian and on the whole economical axis, cause I guess it doesn't depend so much on how you implement economy... or at least there could be a number of ways to make it work depending on the specifics of the society. In other words. I think a functional society could probably work with anarcho-communism just as well as anarcho-capitalism. All it really requires is people thinking for themselves. Haha, objectivist state. Objectivism (in that sense) is great nonsense. There is no objective reason to have a state, to live or whatever. So that's just showing that you're incapable of thinking in an objectivist way. A bit like a blind person believing he's able to see or actually seeing more than everyone else. Hey, thanks for the article myrkul.herzmeister:I don't think individualism and collectivism are mutually exclusive. You can have a collectivist society that strongly supports individualism and is very individualist, even if it doesn't look like that. Especially when work is voluntary. Maybe think about Wikipedia and have a look at various user sites. They are extremely different, have completely different opinions. There are no strongly enforced rules and still everything appears to work pretty well. I am saying this as someone who isn't really a Wikipedian and also criticized it a lot, even though (or actually because) I like it.About land/resource struggle. I think that is actually more a cultural thing. One can't really explain borders and stuff with territories. No sane person considers the borders of his country his territory. That's just something that comes from nationalistic thinking cause by rulers that hungered for power and considered the size of their country something important.As a matter of fact a bigger movement could solve most of the problems, be it energy (see a random fair for new technologies waiting to be implemented. There are so many different ways, that just haven't been tried yet. A few countries, like Japan work on space based solar systems, there is technology ready to use bare land to produce oil from algae and these are not the things I meant when I talked about fairs) or food (currently (that's a fact. Check the WHO I think it was) we could feed the world population thrice if we'd organize it optimally, so even if we don't do it perfectly we could easily prevent people from starving). If we do some of these things, together there would be no more need for resource wars. There is just too much unused potential. A lot of it possibly isn't really in use cause it doesn't really allow you to make a lot of money, but instead solve a problem in a way that prevents you from making money. No, I am not talking about conspiracies here. There is no need for one. People just don't use it commercially yet. I give you a completely different example. Memristors are a new way to store data. They only have benefits and are pretty much completely researched (in the sense of production ready, not like "we are done with research in that area" of course). The reason we don't have them yet is that companies (HP I think) are yet trying to figure out the marketing, doing lots of marketing research. So they'll (if not overtrumped by some other technology) come in this decade (HP plans 2014 IIRC). Something similar is the case for many, many technologies to solve big problems. However, no country is willing to take the risk of trying it first unless they really need to (space based solar systems in Japan).So we are are really stuck by the lack of will and by the risk of investing capital. Big projects just cost a shit ton of money. Cold war made countries invest that money, but it sucks if money only gets invested for military in first place. It's maybe the reason the US does so well, despite sucking in so many ways. They invest so into military like no other country. Even China that has a way bigger money, actual reason to invest, etc. doesn't invest that much. That's btw. even true for percentage of the income. Besides that the US society is trained to be anti-socialist, so they kinda use military investment to secretly still have a form socialism (investing in companies, and people (veterans, etc), make jobs, ...). But hey, that's a secret.  Just want to say that all of this is not like an advertisement for the stuff above. I am not a collectivist or anything. I just found it and wanted to share, see what other think about that. So the things I say below are personal opinion and not necessarily related to that stuff. I don't really know much about it, but it sounded really good and isn't a theory, but actually existed and didn't seem to cause anything bad.Don't know why call it "mine". It's an excerpt of history from a time, long before I lived.But to answer your question: Because history shows us that it obviously worked pretty well.On positivist technocracy: I think it's naive and unrealistic in the sense that it is made for robots or insects or whatever, but not for a human being without what one calls mental problem. The problem is that the quality that brought us where we are is irrationality. It's the thing that makes societies imperfect, the thing that makes us doing completely unproductive, inefficient thing, but also the thing that makes us create "nonsense", be it art or an iPhone or whatever in first place. If you think rationally you would come to the conclusion that it all doesn't really make sense in first place. There is no rational reason for doing anything. When I look at the concepts of a positivist technocracy it looks like a way that leads to either recognizing this (so rather depressive) or not recognizing it and just going on like an insect or a machine, loosing that irrationalism, but not caring about how or why you do anything.It's a bit what socialists and communists often think about capitalism and what they often mean when they use this word. It's an interpretation that most people here won't share, but it is like the capital is autotelic. So you make money (or any other form of capital) just to make even more of it. I think it what often corrupts people with power/money. It's basically like every other addiction. It's basically why I don't believe stuff that people call anarchistic revolution. If you really want something like that the only way is showing and telling people it works better. That's why I wrote this. The goals are always the same, really. If I talk to a communist and I mean not the guy that is part of the Chinese Communist Party, but someone who just wants a society where people are considered equal he has absolutely the same goals as the liberal capitalist and here I don't think about the leader of a party, the head of a bloodthirsty cooperation like Nestle or a big banker, manager or whatever, but the ordinary liberal who believes in people that are truly free, because they are well informed and while they may compete in one form or the other they never be idiots then both of them have the same dream as the anarchist, libertarian, socialist or whoever. After all man are social and caring beings and are absolutely able to get along really well without anyone telling them what to do. There are billions of examples. Haha. Fox! Don't expect anything sane there!  Okay, now for a moment please forget about what you think about all the -isms and look at the facts.After the revolution in Span in 1936, there for a short time has been what most people call collectivist anarchism. Which basically is a mix of various isms, with none of them being too extreme and basically "just let people make". The result of this has been a society that made everything from the hair cutter to weapon construction had enormous increases in efficiency. Women were for the first time able to have abortions, everyone was happy, with lots of rights, free love and stuff.All of this is just what the average leftist, liberal, communist, libertarian, anarchist wants and everyone else dreams of, even when they might call it an unreachable utopia.Basically it has been killed by people who at least say they follow some ism. Since I'd consider them extremist I really wouldn't call them communist or whatever. There always are the people who actually want to live have and something and others that either abuse it or just cry for revolution and never are happy with anything.So, if we have something that seems at least close to an utopia (nothing is absolutely perfect), has some elements from all kinds of utopias and you can learn in history that it did already work, even if it certainly wasn't the best time, then why not give it a try and work from there?To me it sounds like people should just stop arguing about the differences, about how things should be exactly and just do it. I mean it's the same state that you have right after every revolution and everyone is fine, because there are no classes and people just work together. See what happened in North Africa while and shortly after the revolution. One just needs to prevent anyone from gaining grip again. The best thing would be to look at history, tons of examples and just see it is like that.Have a look at these sources. It just sounds awesome:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarchism_in_Spain#1936_Revolutionhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_RevolutionAlso it is kinda what's going on here anyway. People, being socialists, anarchist, libertarians, communists or whatever are just happy with Bitcoin, working together, not thinking too much about what ideology it is. It also shows that it's just about people not forcing each other. Be it your boss, Stalin or the US president, be it this one or any of the past ones. Hint on third world countries (or development countries, how they are called with political correctness in mind) and computer knowledge. They do have the knowledge.http://www.freedomtoaster.org/There even are a number of projects teaching people how to use a computer. Don't you remember OLPC? There have been tons of similar projects, like surf stations and stuff.About internet connection. One should maybe think a bit different when it comes to such countries. There aren't just fiber cables, but also other means that work way better over long distance, using lasers, infrared, etc. Especially when there is no building in your way. And no, something like a bird flying through or whatever neither roasts it nor makes the connection drop. These are technologies basically made for this.Besides that there are things like satellite connections and stuff. Don't forget, you can just have a local network in some tiny town and one or even multiple ways to go to the next bigger city, a university (and yes, they exist in every country ) or whatever and you are done.I guess a lot of infrastructure there is much more decentralized than ours, because they use stuff. Also, they all know Linux and stuff, so they usually are not absolute beginners.And once you are in something like a city, you actually can stop caring about not having computer, energy, Internet, whatever. Than it is more like finding a computer store with good hardware, but if you really want to start such a project I am sure you would find a way to do so. Maybe one can donate old graphics card. Old as in, not good enough to make money if you don't have a solar plant.Also, something you shouldn't forget is that there are not just very efficient, but expensive solar based systems, but there are exists a huge span between what is used in solar power plants over to what you have in your calculator and even stuff that can basically be self made. Oh and don't forget that lots of evil companies send their waste (and if a school, company, university or government replaces their IT one really shouldn't call it waste) drop their stuff their. So you actually have a lot of this high tech waste to use. So, if one would really start something like that like logistically and stuff this idea could actually succeed. Maybe on you even solve a number of problems in the progress.So I'd say it actually could be worth a shot. Surely, one will have some hurdles, but so far I don't really see a problem that couldn't be solved by some people who want to give it a try. Bitcoin is about wealth and money. One needs to be able to confirm that one doesn't receive a version of Bitcoin that has been maliciously modified. It would therefor be a good idea to sign the source code as well as the binary packages. This way one just needs to be sure that one gets the right public key once.With such a key it would also be possible to get the binaries/source from somewhere else. So if the official website is being censored, but a user obtained or has access to the public key one could get it from Tor, I2P, Freenet, from a random other website and still be sure to have an official release.Just have a developer or trusted person with a completely disconnected computer generate a keys on their. Move the public key to key servers (most of them sync anyways) and have him put together the official release (maybe again making sure that the code is the right one) there and create the signatures. Then just move it all out onto the interwebs and there you are. Really secure releases.To make it really really secure one could of course have multiple parties doing the same thing. This, via a web of trust and public key signing would even allow it to make sure that the public key can be changed over time. The nice thing about world governments, the reason why I once liked that idea is that it is about working together.However, I don't think something would be stable. If it was it would prevent political advancement and probably be very corrupted, people with lots of powers tend to become great idiots. Besides this it lacks a plan B. Would this require a world-revolution if something goes wrong?Also if this fails and becomes a dictatorship it would probably lead everyone saying "working together sucks". See what happened to various -isms.I think it would be better to do the opposite. Shrink governments (maybe ultimately to the size of individuals) and instead use modern technologies to work together in more efficient ways. See Bitcoins.It would maybe be good to have government research in the form of seasteading to try out new stuff and well, again: Focus on communication. The Internet, probably Esperanto, etc. Make tools that allow people work together efficient, so you can more easily build great stuff, prevent wars, etc.Maybe one could even combine old, failed ideas with modern technologies. Just like for example Apple revived the tablet. Well, generally more efficient communication would allow people to bring together stuff that together changes the world. To all who weren't sure about what perfect is. Well, that's on purpose. I hoped I'd get an insight on what people consider perfect and get some interesting discussions.  You misunderstood me then.At "taking away freedom from others". Please try to have a look at actual reality. You use freedom in an extremely capitalist way. I mean what comes next? Do you complain about people that breath air you could breath or use the internet and so your connection gets slower?One could also argue that Lybia lost its freedom to have a dictatorship. Later you mention North Korea. [SARCASM]Isn't it good that they have their freedom to be slaves?[/SARCASM][IRONY]That's great! We take a look on how worse it could be and rankings. Looking at rankings is a great way to measure actual advancement.[/IRONY]Have you bothered read Marx's or Engel's stuff? In what way was Mao a communist?Another great comparison of yours. So the US only looks good when compared to possibly the worst country on the planet, the worst dictatorship at least. Really, you'd rather live somewhere else? Oh and North Korea is truly built on the ideals of socialism and communism.  And I am sure you'd deny all the stuff the US did in cold war, right? They are so democratic and everyone has the freedom to randomly picked out for human experimentation. Also it's so nice that they gave the researches of Nazi-Germany a second chance to experiment in the US, so they weren't cruel socialists anymore, but have been paid lots of money to torture people in an ethical way. Because it is for freedom. That's what the US is all about.This never happened? Here just a starting point.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unethical_human_experimentation_in_the_United_StatesAlso dropping atomic bombs on countries before they capitulate, just for the sake of it is a freedom everyone should have.Okay, so I really don't want to be unfair. It's just that you won't find a country that didn't do lots of shit. It's just dumb to connect all these things. Greece has one of the longest histories when it comes to democracy does it mean democracies lead to a country going broke? When Hitler came to power (not after he already had it!) it was a completely democratic process, especially for that time. Does it mean democracies lead to violent wars, genocides and nationalism? (I wouldn't really call it socialism, because their biggest opposition actually have been socialist and communist movements that in that time actually thought for democracy)It's just dumb to say any of these things is about taking freedom. Most of these philosophical-political "ideas" came from people who thought about giving everyone more freedom. One of the core ideas of Marx's communism for example was that workers, who basically had no rights should get them. Another core idea was about people being (in a political sense) equal, which is the opposite of a dictatorship. I think he was wrong in many ways, but from a historical perspective he actually caused workers to have more freedoms. I am not talking about communist states, but for example in England and western Germany workers began to work together in unions and changed things in a good and not extreme way. It also depends a lot on how the countries were before that. Dictatorships usually arise where people are already at the verge of existence. See the fact that the main reason for WW2 was WW1. People just didn't have enough and Germany was kinda enslaved by the winners of the first world war.Most people naturally have the same idea about what's good. Only their approaches differ a lot. See Die Freien. Lots of philosophers who think about Freedom in different ways. You can see socialists, liberalists and if the term had been established back then liberatists. Also see the Bitcoin community (or the open source community). All trying to get freedom.Taxes are unfair, as they take stuff away from you. I completely agree. See the subject of the thread. I am completely aware that I may be wrong about a lot of stuff.My approach with giving everything basic stuff - and I mean the most basic stuff is to overcome certain things that a worse. The problem is that minorities (in whatever way) often have financial problems. I also think a lot of money simply gets wasted by a complex financial system. It's why I am unsure about minimal stats. I mean something like that would simply solve that problem. I know, taking 1% (random value) from people is still taking things from someone and I think using force sucks. I basically think everyone should have the right to say "no" to everything (a reason why I think a world governments for example may not be a good idea). However, I think guaranteeing life (water, bread, healthcare that makes sure you don't die or even better can work) and education (and with that I basically mean what we have now. Libraries and open universities) will bring us into a better position quicker.A lot of bad things (many dictatorships and violence) simply came from the fact that people didn't think about it, didn't know it better and didn't know how to survive. In the end some kind of revolution (and with that I also mean declaration of independence, because it usually is against the will of something else) changed things, sometimes to better, sometimes to worse, usually at least a bit of both always caused to change things. I think in such revolutions we lose too much, stuff that either has to be rebuilt or is lost forever. I think things will always be better if you have more educated people and take a look at history. It is true.I know you can argue about how education is done. It's usually suboptimal and sucks a lot, but for most part it is good because knowledge causes you to look at things from a different perspective, question bad stuff and not blindly follow someone who wants to take your freedom.We find ourselves in a position where we already pay lots of stupid taxes. I think the first incremental step towards a more free society is to unify them, making them fair and more efficient (not using taxes on managing taxes), like one tax for everyone. Then using them for basic stuff, basically that kind of stuff that's described in the declaration of human rights. From there it would be much easier to get into serous discussions that are less about emotions and more about advancement. Of course the optimal society would be one that's completely without force where people decide what they consider right, by thinking for themselves. Really I am completely on your side, but I don't think we can go there in one step. There would be revolution, counter revolution and we'd end up where we are, not having solved most of the problems and having thought a war with even worse weapons. What's even worse is that we would have lots of time, lots of lives, lots of chances.Really? Do you consider the US capitalist? They never had COINTELPRO? There are no companies that kill people because they know their products are bad or they do something criminal?I wouldn't call it capitalist vs socialist tough, because.. China. It says and is considered communists, however acts capitalists, when it comes to their market.The problem is that these -isms are just causing confusions. Seriously, everyone sees everything in a different light depending on where they grew up and what books they read. I mean you can force people when you have more money. A person that comes from a rich family can "simply" force a person from a poor background. In fact that's what happens in India and China. Rich companies from western/developed countries force them to do work and dump wages. Of course it's stupid to say that's the work of capitalism, but it's just as stupid to say socialism is about authorities and taking away stuff.The thing is that capitalism in a way requires some fundamental equality to be fair, while socialism in a way tries to enforce it. I am talking about the philosophies here, not about reality. Like really in the beginning a lot of capitalists were like "god will do the rest/be that magical hand that makes things regulate themselves". It's wrong like this. It's wrong to think that a completely free market will magically try to regulate itself, because there are things where there always is more demand than there could ever be supply and a lot of people that simply have interest to make profit and team up so that they for example control pretty much all sources of a certain resource. Anyway, I don't want to talk about why capitalism isn't perfect. I don't know anything else that's really flawless and much better.Wrong perspective!The poor in non-free markets often "pay" (work or whatever) for other countries.Also you are kinda saying that people in a functioning country are better of than in a non-functional and say that it is about free markets.Since you like to talk about socialism. See Cuba. It's the most successful country in that area (see neighbor countries), despite US sanctions which would kill every European country. Now, I don't think Cuba is a great country, but poor people there are way better off than neighbor-countries with freer markets.Also European countries usually are usually less liberal than the US, still the poorest people of for example Sweden, since you mentioned it are better off than in the US. I think pretty much everyone, but a few super rich (maybe even they) are better of in Europe than the folks in the US. Yes, really.Besides that even a lot of poorer countries in Europe have fewer debts per person than the US. Oh and these mean, socialist countries (in a lot of European countries socialists/social-democratic parties are in the government) don't use torture on anyone, don't have death-penalty, have healthcare for basically everyone, often even free or mostly-paid universities, ...Oh and consumers have more rights, meaning more freedoms. They are allowed to modify products for their own use, don't have that draconian DMCA stuff, etc.It's just wrong to think free markets magically make everything better.But seriously all of this can change at every moment, with a financial crisis, with China finally using their power or whatever. What's really important is to set up certain anchors of freedom. Which means making sure you are independent and sorry, but this includes a certain minimum of "free" stuff. It doesn't even have to be paid by taxes. A library usually can pay for itself. We, no matter whether you are a capitalist/liberalist, socialist, anarchist (like communist or capitalist or whatever), define yourself as democrat/republican (not talking about the parties here) or whatever should simply create the right tools and infrastructure for us and everyone else (because we simply can't do everything on your own and we need all support) to strengthen freedom, independence and help everyone to fight oppression now matter what kind of -ism the oppressor does or pretends to follow.I mean seriously, look at what people can do when working together. The Internet, Bitcoin, Wikipedia or whatever isn't built by only capitalists or socialists, but by people who think it's the right thing to do.Yes, I think it is better to have basic stuff for free. I actually spend a lot of money on free stuff, like music on Jamendo, donations to EFF. I run a pretty big Tor server. I am renting/paying for a server to run stuff like Tor on it, because I want people and I don't care what they consider themselves or others to be to advance freely.And in between I enjoy to annoy people by criticizing their philosophies, hoping it is a bit constructive, pretending that it is a good thing to do. When I talk about education I mainly want people to be smart enough see that it's (in an egoistic way) better for them if they help others and to see things from a completely different perspective. Being social and friendly (in a non-political way) is a desire people have anyway, just like sexual desire. So it's not like I would ever think that you need to force someone. I even agree that it is stupid to force someone. I just think that in an evolutionary way it probably is a good first step to a freer society. I could be completely wrong and that's why I want to see what others think about. And then I will just use these arguments when criticizing someone who thinks like that. Research in a way.So yes, I change my position a lot. On purpose. While you may consider it stupid and in a way weak I think it's the best way to learn and find out what's right. Take a glace at real life. You can convince people to do/buy/whatever the biggest shit. In fact I learned in school propaganda (political advertisement) was probably the main reason Hitler came far. He has been discussed in history lessons, as well as latin/rhetoric because of it. The strange way he talked can demonstrably (as in verified by various studies) make your brain believe in random stuff.People tend to forget that behind advertisements there is a whole science that only focuses on manipulating people's opinion.See election campaigns. It is not about facts at all. It is about advertisement, being present, talking generic stuff that looks like it makes sense. People, like companies frequently win with slogans or making a valid opinion look bad.The government can force you as much as any other entity. You can always decide on saying no. Look on what people think about the US government and look on what people think about Google, Apple or Facebook. Do you really think the government has so much power if some bug company actually puts their money into bribing, propaganda/ads and uses their best marketing guys.In pretty much every country there is something like a TV channel, talk show or news paper that's so dominant that it can easily decide on who wins an election. In many this actually has happened. Depending on how liberal a country is it's either controlled by a politician or a private entity.Really, take a look outside and see how much actual, verifiable information influences people or society and how much content-less, emotion focused (applied psychology) propaganda does. Marketing is just a science.If you have a government that does shit you can always start a revolution, but if you have stupid companies doing shit it's often hard, because you have to stop using their products and (so there are) replace them with something else. You'll soon be an outsider and a weirdo nobody wants to listen too.
There are systems for most of these things, but to my knowledge in the end you still have a box pretending to do this, while it doesn't.A lot of these systems can be read upon on Wikipedia or books about cryptography. Only problem is that even if it works, I think it is too easy to trick most people or be lied to. You know, it is like Bitcoin. Everything works by mathematical rules and could show them, but also create a program that does something completely different, but still looks like that. And while you can find out by disassembling, having a closer look or something like that it can be hard to do that with a voting machine.Also you only have to trick some people, to cause that one percent difference. You can trick people, also on stuff that you can (easily) verify.However, you can also brain wash people with media and in a certain environment you can be as "smart" as you want and still would believe it, because of how our brains work. If you want to work more, work in your free time To begin with: I love Bitcoin. I think it is desperately needed.However, I think in a perfect world, one humanity may or may not be able to create one wouldn't need it. It would become dormant. I if we can reach it, we are at least extremely far from it and would consider Bitcoin at least an important tool for now.Do you agree? Mostly sounds nice, but I have a few questions.What's wrong about Christianity? Or do you mean Catholicism and the church?What about culture?How would you do that?What would you do about the massive effects on economy and jobs, as well as the whole industry when you stop government spending? How will you find a place for everyone?What do you mean by "rampant growth into wilderness"?Math and science? I am kinda confused. What do you define as science?Are you working on improving the US? If yes, how? If now, why not? A world government is something I wanted when I have still been naive too, but seriously, look at how society works. Usually smaller societies work far better than bigger. A world government is stupid, because  even if thinks look like they would be more efficient they are not. The opposite is true. We actually should split things.I know that's exactly the opposite of what most of us always thought to be the truth, but simply look at sizes of countries and then tell me that bigger countries are doing better. Simply not true. Big organizations have big problems.Also, you are making a mistake if you think that there is something like a good politician or a good government. The thing is not only that you can't measure it in first place, but also that even if there is a politician where most of us could agree on to be good or at least not too bad it really depends on time and society. The best democrat may be the worst thing for the world tomorrow or would have been a few hundred years ago, maybe would even have prevented democracy from coming to existence.Its also a bad option in an evolutionary sense. More small, individual, independent countries mean more experiments on government technology or in a biological sense a bigger gene pool.Also it is the extreme form of centralization and I think most of us can agree that that's bad.Also, if you have to care about the whole world you will act way too abstract which of course is really bad in a lot of ways.A better alternative would be the emancipation of people weakening the need for a government, so it at least has less to do. See Small Is Beautiful. Also have a look at Leopold Kohr's practical work, really effecting societies in a positive way. He too wrote a book, called The Breakdown of Nations.Or just see negative examples, like the US, China or Russia. They are all big in different ways. Then compare them to stuff, like Luxemburg, Switzerland, Austria, etc.Also, to solve global problems you usually need something else than an (active) politician. You need people that actually do stuff. There aren't many (active) politicians that actually changed the world to a better. Doesn't mean they are not good, but it's a fact. There are lots of other people who did and a lot of politicians do more good stuff afterwards, when they are more free. Yep, that's maybe it. People work better on making the world better, when they are not bound to anything, be it the world of politic, time, money or whatever. It still works. This error only means that there is someone with an old client out there. Doesn't affect you other than seeing that message. I agree that they would loose, but doesn't that mean they would be kinda forced to "be evil". I know, it's a stupid thing to say, since things are way more complex and I don't think things would become much worse than they are currently, but exactly for that reason I don't think a Libertarian world isn't really something that's worth going for. Overall problems would just be moved somewhere else. I talked about other ideologies, because it's the same there. You solve one problem by creating another or to say it in another way you give up one freedom for another.Yeah, I know I have been in a lot of discussions on freedom and I read so many philosophic works on what freedom is and I know the different views. I kinda came to the conclusion that you really have to change society for most stuff and if you want to do it top down you have to use some form of propaganda or in other words mass media. Be it Martin Luther and the printing press or Hitler, who used rhetoric and political propaganda and pretty much started a new era of political campaigns. Again, see the US. You have tons of flags everywhere. See the New York Stock Exchange. I don't know any other country that's so nationalist when it comes to this. It brings a lot of stability as I told earlier.So in a Libertarian society wouldn't pretty much a random big company or even some form of collaboration replace most parts of the state. I mean, if you say that they change then isn't it pretty much the same with governments? And in a Libertarian society where the state doesn't take a certain role bringing stability something similar would emerge and take that part. You are not forced into something by a government, but maybe by society or companies. So where is the change? Again: I don't want to. I am just thinking about stuff.Work is not money. Revolutions usually are independent of money.That's exactly it. I didn't say anything about taking money. I just said people can support others. Family and friends are examples.It's called inflation and in various situations it's actually a good thing. Especially because it causes money to be moved. Most systems are based on money that needs to move.In an evolving and growing society it does.Also you could argue about financial crisis, now and 90 years ago. The factories have been there, the workers and the resources. But there is this big crisis, so the whole economy has to stall. Doesn't make a lot of sense either.Well depends on a number of things. Do you mean what it is now or what it used to be? First and foremost it is an abstract scheme to define/convert values of goods and services.But the view on things can be different depending on whether you are a government, a central bank, see money in the cash market or see physical money.No. It's simply one perspective.What do you know about political economy? What do you know about terms like controlled inflation? Central (banker's) banks do create more money (in form of interest) under certain circumstances. I don't want anyone to spend any money on anything.Besides that you are wrong. It does not depend on how much money you have. Look at history. How many forms of society have been based on someone with money starting that.You are also wrong when you say a wealthy person don't have enough cash to support others so they don't have to struggle with daily lives. There are tons of people supporting others lives.I think one possible way to create something like what I said would be inflation. People get a basic amount of money from a central bank, enough to live and maybe to pay school. Basically how Cuba (and yeah, when it comes to stability they are doing very well when you think about the US sanctions, even if the government is damn oppressive and stuff. Many people there even seem to be very happy, even if they have a good reason to complain about there government and do so) has been doing it for a while now, but I guess "normal" money would be better.Basically, if you want any kind of luxury you'll have to work for it. This would of course have a huge effect on inflation, but that's natural in times of upheavals.I think a big problem is that people forget about money and economics are tools for society. Society should be independent of it. It's imply stupid to create systems where you can have a financial crisis and it's a huge problem for the world. It certainly is a problem so it needs to be fixed. I guess it will be fixed at some points. I just think (and fear) a lot more people will have bad luck (wrong time, wrong place) until then. Well, I guess it's a lot of how you define waste. I mean in a way you could call every form of economic system and what it entails a huge waste that could be replaced with a system similar(!) to communism (and by that I mean the early, basic concepts).An even better concept I think would be a resource based economy (similar, but not necessarily exactly what he Zeitgeist Movement/the Venus project proposes).Isn't that all very naive? Especially when we see how people (or companies, countries, whatever) usually benefit if they don't raise the finger. Wouldn't it therefor be much better to build a free society based on giving anyone what is required to live and the option to education since this is what always caused a benefit for the whole society. And if you would want a better society wouldn't it be possible to raise the minimum level so everyone can risk something in order to make society better and doesn't have to struggle with daily life? All this to prevent someone who could contribute from spending all of his time struggling with survival.Don't we have a huge problem with how society thinks about certain groups. I mean like an actor once meant nothing and had low pay for doing a lot more and now they get tons of money. Same thing is true for computer science.In general the money someone receives doesn't tell you a lot about how much someone contributes to society. It's even worse, money is actually demotivating. Also it's hard to argue on what's an important contribution. Also it's simply stupid, that luxury goods like expensive cars, destroying the environment for everyone makes companies a lot of money. Like in many other cases people are more like "but others do it as well". And what about all the companies (Apple being a famous example) creating products that break soon so they make more money? They already make lots of money by making things worse, so what would happen if the was no regulation and it would be even easier for Apple to silence people complaining about that? Wouldn't this be the case in a Libertarian society, because the state doesn't create rules to prevent people who don't know lots of stuff from buying bad (like even dangerous) products?Just because I often read it in discussions. It's simply not true to say that dangerous (or generally bad) products would simply disappear, because they have bad chances on surviving. Yeah, I think the world would be better off without states, being able to regulate itself and I think we should work into that direction, but on the other hand I am living in central Europe and I have seen and can see how liberation of markets makes things worse for the company, the people working there and the consumers. I am also close enough to US citizens to know they are worse off, because the US seem to push even more into free markets and while I have studied enough to know that everything would work better under certain circumstances I always get reminded of all the other ideologies about making the world better for everyone.People love freedom. But freedom can be "Freedom to decide about every cent you earn and not give everything that state or whoever" and "Freedom to try new stuff, because it won't kill you when it turns out to be a mistake". Since society, like everything else evolves with trial and error isn't better to make sure you have more tries?I think democracy "works" because it's maybe the most revolution resistant form of authority. It's easy to make people believe that they have power and can change things for better. Combined with various forms propaganda (a science that got far in the past 100 years) it simply, subtly hardens control. See the US. Only two huge parties that are similar in so many ways and everyone knows (as in believes) that voting for someone else doesn't change anything. Shouldn't that be enough they simply create exceptions. There is always some kind of opposition while in reality everything is stalled and reinforcing itself, because it worked until now. Basic evolution. Since it is the most influential country/the superpower it to a certain degree can even control the rest of the world through means of "globalization".It's stable. It's maybe even better than alternatives. I don't know, I haven't seen them.People can look at history, but still think it's different now. From my point of view it's just that things get more large-scale. But isn't it always the fault of someone else? Also wouldn't these things require (enforced) transparency? If you start out being handicapped how would you pay insurance? That's why I call it luck. Stephen Hawking at least had the luck to be in the right social environment.So what's the benefit of a libertarian society then? I spent some time thinking about Libertarians, because I find it interesting in many ways. I have some criticism that I don't write to tell everyone how bad Libertarians are, but because I am curious about the answers, where I am wrong and where I am right.So for actual freedom wouldn't it make sense to take care that everyone can have a life of a certain standard - get food, a place to live, healthcare, education for free (not something luxurious, just something)?Wouldn't a minimal state be extremely bad for people that have "bad luck" (disabilities since birth)? Wouldn't it cause companies to create/be dictatorships (look up on Foxconn, they have more employees than some states have citizens and completely control their lives)?Wouldn't such a society destroy the free market, because of stuff like monopolies?Wouldn't we have all the benefits of a Libertarian society already if people would actually care about stuff like what products they buy and why would people care more in a libertarian society? From Wikipedia:An interviewhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DFXXAuDK1AoI think this guy is pretty much the last chance for the US, before China takes over. Shush! We are being watched. I know I shouldn't be talking about this, but the world has got to know! I heard Longistan has infiltrated the Vatican. They have a huge top secret mining farm there!The US is sending reconnaissance drones, but they can't see anything because it's all in their top secret underground bunker. Oh, oh and they are even trying to change the climate with a top secret super weapon so that the world freezes to cool their GPUs.Overall they try to enslave the mankind by hypnotizing them with GPU fans that turn them into mindless zombies working in their Bitcoin mines. Well, information sharing in general.It doesn't have to files.Think about it. Homo sapiens (no matter what you may think about it) is a highly social species. That's the main reason for its dominance. Individuals lived in groups and communicated, told each other to work together when hunting, how to make fire, cook, what's dangerous, how to work together to catch an animal. So over time something like a language, something completely artificial was created (children can't simply speak). Then paintings and symbols have been created to communicated which made written language possible. Then stuff like math has been developed and ways to store information in various ways were created. Without communication you couldn't have culture or civilization. You couldn't even tell someone about rules. Humanity always had its biggest progress when a better, more efficient way of communication has been found. Talking (which means a common language), writing (which among other things means archiving information/communication) and other things like the history of paper, the history of printing (not only Gutenberg!) and then telecommunication with telegrams, telephony and computer networks. Without any of these things a modern society is simply impossible.And if you think about art, which more or less is pure culture. It has always been about using various forms of communication. And if you think about civilized cultures. It has always been about how efficient information can be shared. It's even the same for wars. Philosophy would be impossible.All of this is sharing and copying data. If you tell someone something he basically gets a copy of things in his brain. He may keep it or not, but it has been copied. Think about epochs in art. The reason things were similar are exactly because people copied. Most of your thoughts are because of something someone else said, showed you, something you read. Every social norm we have is because humanity copies stuff.Without copying/communication/sharing of information every market would be dominated by a monopoly. Everything you see in the supermarket is a copy. The supermarket itself is a copy of the first market. Think about money. Even here someone had the idea and others copied it.Hmm, you could maybe go even deeper and think about genetics. Even here it's about sharing information. Reproduction is basically copying your DNA, for humans and other sexual species remixing stuff. If you reduce an individual to its DNA similar twins are even identical copies of each other. With asexual life forms it's exact cloning with (sometimes) errors (mutation). For others it is mostly male and a female copying their DNA (which is the medium this form of information uses) and mixing it with the others. But I guess you all learned that in school.So yes, file sharing follows the same way cultures work, humans work, life itself works.I am not sure how serious they were, but sums it up pretty well: http://youtu.be/NGZ-hTBmUyg?hd=1 When we think about the U.S. economic being liberal we forget the war complex. The U.S. has not only the second biggest army, but the most expensive. This isn't just about 1.5 million soldiers, but also about huge supporting companies, which means mercenaries, logistics, weapon production, etc. In a way that's like the natural way because of the extremely positive economic effect the two world wars, as well as the cold war and and pretty big number of invasions the U.S. did. I think with stuff like atomic bomb tests and maybe even the space program they tried to do things in a more peaceful way.So in the U.S. you have the problem everything that looks like government spending is called socialism, communism or whatever (evil stuff). That comes from all the deep propaganda and as a way to justify everything (see all the stuff the Freedom of Information legislation revealed, but is unknown by the public, though official).Still the government needs to be there and has some means of controlling things. Tons of jobs need to be created and if the free market fails to create them (and come on, don't think of it like a dogma. It isn't perfect.) then the government needs to invest money. I mean think about it. If war suddenly ended and everything would be peaceful the U.S. would be the first country to "die", even though they have other nice tricks like USD for oil, etc. I think they also have lots of other economic powers, but I don't think anything could really jump in if there was no need for the military. Also China is pressuring a lot. Everyone with some attentions know that they will replace the U.S. as a super power and they possibly can't even do anything about it, because I think in a war China has a much bigger chance to win these days.This doesn't mean any of these countries is bad. It's just a historical development. And if they would change it right now a huge crisis could evolve. I mean there is much more behind this. Everyone waits for the other one to show some kind of weakness. This isn't something you can simply turn off. It would be awesome, but also quite utopian.I am sorry for disillusioning people. It would be great if things were better and I don't know, the U.S. would really be about freedom and peace of France would really be about fraternity and the communist countries would be about people that meet on the same eye level (like in the original idea, stopping the class war). It would be nice if a free market could simply solve all our problems. All these things can't solve anything.Everything that ever made things better is people who didn't really (even if they maybe count themselves as one of them) care about any of these, but actually worked together to make things better. I mean that's the foundation stone of civilization, but goes even deeper. Humanity emerged as the dominant life form because they worked together. Of course others do too, but we have a great number of thinking individuals that are awesome and communicating (sharing data for all the geeks. ) and reach goals because of that. The position we are now even makes things a lot easier. We created so many tools to help us with all these things. With technology and science we pretty much found a way to take evolution into our own hands. We don't need to, lets say evolve hours brains to telepathy, because we can just phone, send an SMS, email or use VoIP. We don't need to evolve to be faster at telling our children what we know, because there are books.Well, anyway. I think that's kinda off topic, so I'll shut up. Yay, so we managed to stabilize Bitcoin?! (not serious)
4.42 USD I hope I didn't miss anything, but isn't it impossible to see the worksize if you let cgminer choose it? The big conspiracy. Someone has a virtually unlimited amount of money, but is afraid of the price dropping below 5 USD because he loses money?With all this entails... Yeah, I am pretty sure it's exactly like that!   Okay, now I am genuinely confused. What's that? Reverse psychology? Or Reverse, reverse, reverse psychology?Or actually a try to actually get new users into the community? If so, I don't really think this board is a good place to tell people about Bitcoin. xD Yay, this means a new generation of Bitcoiners. Everyone complaining about unfair advantages of very (very, very) early adopters this is your chance!Time for some reminiscence: Oh god, Bitcoin is is going to die because of massive deflation. Price is never going to go down. People will always keep their coins. No markets can establish.Those were the days my friend. We thought they'd never end... Happy Valentine's Day!(Maybe people just cash out to buy flowers and pralines? Hey folks, you can get these with Bitcoins!) I keep getting the following error. It's on Arch Linux. Dependencies should be installed and everything seems to work well. It loads shares and build up connections, but after a few seconds this is what I get. Version 5250df6.Code:2012-02-12 16:16:08.016118 ... done processing 209 shares. New: 209 Have: 12263/~172802012-02-12 16:16:08.017009 > Watchdog timer went off at:2012-02-12 16:16:08.017406 >   File "run_p2pool.py", line 5, in <module>2012-02-12 16:16:08.017821 >     main.run()2012-02-12 16:16:08.018156 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 1186, in run2012-02-12 16:16:08.018555 >     reactor.run()2012-02-12 16:16:08.018952 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/base.py", line 1169, in run2012-02-12 16:16:08.019369 >     self.mainLoop()2012-02-12 16:16:08.019697 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/base.py", line 1181, in mainLoop2012-02-12 16:16:08.020076 >     self.doIteration(t)2012-02-12 16:16:08.020397 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/pollreactor.py", line 167, in doPoll2012-02-12 16:16:08.020802 >     log.callWithLogger(selectable, _drdw, selectable, fd, event)2012-02-12 16:16:08.021141 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/log.py", line 84, in callWithLogger2012-02-12 16:16:08.021505 >     return callWithContext({"system": lp}, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-12 16:16:08.021837 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/log.py", line 69, in callWithContext2012-02-12 16:16:08.022236 >     return context.call({ILogContext: newCtx}, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-12 16:16:08.022593 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/context.py", line 118, in callWithContext2012-02-12 16:16:08.022929 >     return self.currentContext().callWithContext(ctx, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-12 16:16:08.023315 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/context.py", line 81, in callWithContext2012-02-12 16:16:08.023645 >     return func(*args,**kw)2012-02-12 16:16:08.024056 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/posixbase.py", line 581, in _doReadOrWrite2012-02-12 16:16:08.024390 >     why = selectable.doRead()2012-02-12 16:16:08.024760 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/tcp.py", line 199, in doRead2012-02-12 16:16:08.025098 >     rval = self.protocol.dataReceived(data)2012-02-12 16:16:08.025468 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 65, in new_dataReceived2012-02-12 16:16:08.025849 >     old_dataReceived(data)2012-02-12 16:16:08.026218 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/util/datachunker.py", line 40, in _DataChunker2012-02-12 16:16:08.026564 >     wants = receiver.send(buf.get(wants))2012-02-12 16:16:08.026901 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/bitcoin/p2p.py", line 64, in dataReceiver2012-02-12 16:16:08.027286 >     self.packetReceived(command, payload2)2012-02-12 16:16:08.027616 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 78, in packetReceived2012-02-12 16:16:08.028036 >     bitcoin_p2p.BaseProtocol.packetReceived(self, command, payload2)2012-02-12 16:16:08.028457 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/bitcoin/p2p.py", line 74, in packetReceived2012-02-12 16:16:08.028955 >     handler(**payload2)2012-02-12 16:16:08.029299 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 210, in handle_shares2012-02-12 16:16:08.029705 >     self.node.handle_shares(res, self)2012-02-12 16:16:08.030035 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 269, in handle_shares2012-02-12 16:16:08.030412 >     set_real_work2()2012-02-12 16:16:08.030737 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 184, in set_real_work22012-02-12 16:16:08.031094 >     best, desired = tracker.think(get_height_rel_highest, pre_current_work.value['previous_block'], pre_current_work.value['bits'])2012-02-12 16:16:08.031445 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 289, in think2012-02-12 16:16:08.031773 >     if self.attempt_verify(share):2012-02-12 16:16:08.032181 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 268, in attempt_verify2012-02-12 16:16:08.032523 >     share.check(self)2012-02-12 16:16:08.032897 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 133, in check2012-02-12 16:16:08.033224 >     share_info, gentx = generate_transaction(tracker, self.share_info['share_data'], self.header['bits'].target, self.share_info['timestamp'], self.net)2012-02-12 16:16:08.033666 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 209, in generate_transaction2012-02-12 16:16:08.034008 >     other_weights, other_total_weight, other_donation_weight = tracker.get_cumulative_weights(previous_share_hash, min(height, chain_length), 65535*max(0, max_att - this_att))2012-02-12 16:16:08.034416 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/util/skiplist.py", line 55, in __call__2012-02-12 16:16:08.034746 >     updates[x] = updates[x][0], self.combine_deltas(updates[x][1], delta) if updates[x][1] is not None else delta2012-02-12 16:16:08.035138 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/skiplists.py", line 13, in combine_deltas2012-02-12 16:16:08.035469 >     return share_count1 + share_count2, math.add_dicts(weights1, weights2), total_weight1 + total_weight2, total_donation_weight1 + total_donation_weight22012-02-12 16:16:08.035902 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/util/math.py", line 64, in add_dicts2012-02-12 16:16:08.036240 >     res[k] = res.get(k, 0) + v2012-02-12 16:16:08.036595 >   File "/home/neptop/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 887, in <lambda>2012-02-12 16:16:08.036934 >     sys.stderr.write, 'Watchdog timer went off at:\n' + ''.join(traceback.format_stack())2012-02-12 16:16:08.111189 P2Pool: 12263 shares in chain (3622 verified/12263 total) Peers: 1 (0 incoming) You linked to the same thread twice. I am receiving errors:Code:2012-02-10 01:35:23.919558 Processing 1001 shares from 72.14.191.28:9333...2012-02-10 01:36:49.833442 Requesting parent share 27a81904 from 168.7.116.243:93332012-02-10 01:36:49.837495 ... done processing 1001 shares. New: 1001 Have: 9027/~172802012-02-10 01:36:49.842651 > Watchdog timer went off at:2012-02-10 01:36:49.843077 >   File "run_p2pool.py", line 5, in <module>2012-02-10 01:36:49.843437 >     main.run()2012-02-10 01:36:49.843760 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 1134, in run2012-02-10 01:36:49.844139 >     reactor.run()2012-02-10 01:36:49.844464 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/base.py", line 1169, in run2012-02-10 01:36:49.844881 >     self.mainLoop()2012-02-10 01:36:49.845235 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/base.py", line 1181, in mainLoop2012-02-10 01:36:49.845602 >     self.doIteration(t)2012-02-10 01:36:49.845937 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/pollreactor.py", line 167, in doPoll2012-02-10 01:36:49.846259 >     log.callWithLogger(selectable, _drdw, selectable, fd, event)2012-02-10 01:36:49.846646 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/log.py", line 84, in callWithLogger2012-02-10 01:36:49.846974 >     return callWithContext({"system": lp}, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-10 01:36:49.847333 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/log.py", line 69, in callWithContext2012-02-10 01:36:49.847671 >     return context.call({ILogContext: newCtx}, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-10 01:36:49.847990 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/context.py", line 118, in callWithContext2012-02-10 01:36:49.848439 >     return self.currentContext().callWithContext(ctx, func, *args, **kw)2012-02-10 01:36:49.848827 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/python/context.py", line 81, in callWithContext2012-02-10 01:36:49.849235 >     return func(*args,**kw)2012-02-10 01:36:49.849561 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/posixbase.py", line 581, in _doReadOrWrite2012-02-10 01:36:49.849948 >     why = selectable.doRead()2012-02-10 01:36:49.850265 >   File "/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/twisted/internet/tcp.py", line 199, in doRead2012-02-10 01:36:49.850625 >     rval = self.protocol.dataReceived(data)2012-02-10 01:36:49.850957 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 62, in <lambda>2012-02-10 01:36:49.851275 >     self.dataReceived = lambda data: (self.timeout_delayed.reset(100) if not self.timeout_delayed.called else None, old_dataReceived(data))[0]2012-02-10 01:36:49.851738 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/util/datachunker.py", line 40, in _DataChunker2012-02-10 01:36:49.852078 >     wants = receiver.send(buf.get(wants))2012-02-10 01:36:49.852455 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/bitcoin/p2p.py", line 64, in dataReceiver2012-02-10 01:36:49.852779 >     self.packetReceived(command, payload2)2012-02-10 01:36:49.853155 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 74, in packetReceived2012-02-10 01:36:49.853482 >     bitcoin_p2p.BaseProtocol.packetReceived(self, command, payload2)2012-02-10 01:36:49.853837 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/bitcoin/p2p.py", line 74, in packetReceived2012-02-10 01:36:49.854172 >     handler(**payload2)2012-02-10 01:36:49.854487 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/p2p.py", line 206, in handle_shares2012-02-10 01:36:49.854910 >     self.node.handle_shares(res, self)2012-02-10 01:36:49.855246 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 269, in handle_shares2012-02-10 01:36:49.855614 >     set_real_work2()2012-02-10 01:36:49.855933 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 184, in set_real_work22012-02-10 01:36:49.856295 >     best, desired = tracker.think(get_height_rel_highest, pre_current_work.value['previous_block'], pre_current_work.value['bits'])2012-02-10 01:36:49.856639 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 289, in think2012-02-10 01:36:49.856960 >     if self.attempt_verify(share):2012-02-10 01:36:49.857331 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 268, in attempt_verify2012-02-10 01:36:49.857652 >     share.check(self)2012-02-10 01:36:49.858012 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 133, in check2012-02-10 01:36:49.858425 >     share_info, gentx = generate_transaction(tracker, self.share_info['share_data'], self.header['bits'].target, self.share_info['timestamp'], self.net)2012-02-10 01:36:49.858811 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/data.py", line 209, in generate_transaction2012-02-10 01:36:49.859152 >     other_weights, other_total_weight, other_donation_weight = tracker.get_cumulative_weights(previous_share_hash, min(height, chain_length), 65535*max(0, max_att - this_att))2012-02-10 01:36:49.859488 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/util/skiplist.py", line 55, in __call__2012-02-10 01:36:49.859865 >     updates[x] = updates[x][0], self.combine_deltas(updates[x][1], delta) if updates[x][1] is not None else delta2012-02-10 01:36:49.860201 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/skiplists.py", line 13, in combine_deltas2012-02-10 01:36:49.860570 >     return share_count1 + share_count2, math.add_dicts(weights1, weights2), total_weight1 + total_weight2, total_donation_weight1 + total_donation_weight22012-02-10 01:36:49.860911 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/util/math.py", line 64, in add_dicts2012-02-10 01:36:49.861269 >     res[k] = res.get(k, 0) + v2012-02-10 01:36:49.861655 >   File "/home/user/p2pool/p2pool/main.py", line 840, in <lambda>2012-02-10 01:36:49.862016 >     sys.stderr.write, 'Watchdog timer went off at:\n' + ''.join(traceback.format_stack())2012-02-10 01:36:49.863502 > ---> LOST CONTACT WITH BITCOIND for 1.6 minutes! Check that it isn't frozen or dead! <--- Well, it will still take a lot of time until all Bitcoins are produced and everyone know that Bitcoins as an investment option are still very risky. Of course it settles more and more, but think about it. By the end of the year Bitcoin production will be halved for the very first time and it will take more than 30 years until the production phase ends, no matter how many people mine. So, we are only in a production phase. Everyone that joins is an early adopter and everyone that joins strengthens the network and therefore the value (as in reliability, not (directly) the exchange rate) of each coin.It's still risky, but Bitcoin does great for now. While exchanges have been hacked, wallets have been stolen, pools closed and there was a huge increase in the exchange rate to other currencies followed by a quick drop people still care about Bitcoin. Of course, some people think they can make quick money, others see it as investment and for others it means, freedom, independence and is the future of money, being easy to use in the digital age. Right now we have tools to quickly generate wallets/addresses on every device. There are Bitcoin implementation that allow you to generate a lost wallet by passwords/seeds and there are lots of approaches to make Bitcoins physical. I think we will see lots of standards on how to deal with Bitcoins and I am sure there will be more providers that will offer Bitcoins in a similar way to Paypal for all the people who are not interested in how people work. Trusted entities. See the history of computers. Twenty to thirty years ago most people that use computers (or the internet) today would have been unable to do the simplest things. Now everyone uses tons of protocols to use stuff like eBay, Paypal, Banking services and Facebook, like it would be a magical box. Bitcoin is developing and it thirty years people will maybe use Bitcoins without even noticing it. Maybe people born today won't even be able to fully understand how money worked these days. I mean most of us today wonder how people were even able to get through life without things like the internet. Twenty years ago nobody had an idea about it. Even Microsoft thought it won't become something big. They were late adopters with IE. Most people therefor used Netscape.Neither the computer industry nor Bitcoin halted. So everyone that stays with Bitcoin and possibly gets involved, programming, enhancing the community or runs a Bitcoin related company or service may at some point be the next IBM, Microsoft or Google. I mean come on, the last one just built a simple search engine. Something every interested teenager can do these days. When I start cgminer with a -Q bigger than 2 it doesn't seem to have an effect. I think NASDAQEnema's definition of culture is different. First of all I wouldn't call a religion (or a believe in general) a culture. Think about Christianity. Even if you trim it down to Catholicism there are huge differences between the cultures people have in one region or in the other. I am not living in Denmark, but I am sure the culture there isn't the same everywhere.Of course there are hierarchical systems in some religions, but I think what NASDAQEnema also meant is that these things are maybe parts of a culture but people don't really live in systems. They are too big and too abstract. Of course they influence culture, but at least until now nobody came up with a really working system people, other than a small fraction can really identify with.People usually see themselves in very small groups. It's far easier to culturally be a member of a family, someone in a district or in an online community than to be something like a European (again, culturally), simply because people in the same cultural space can be very different. Even if you have ideals like Freedom that tends to have a different meaning for different people. See Libertarians who usually don't consider social insurance an incision while others consider it a foundation stone of liberty because it gives you a independence from money and corporations. So even if you consider liberty a an ideal for a system different cultures may have a different view on things. For this reason there tend to be twists inside parties, religions, etc. Of course these also exist in cultures, but cultures are a huge mix of things. I would consider religions, philosophies, political stuff in general to be systems that influence and maybe are part of cultures, which can't really be abstracted, especially because they constantly change and possibly obsolete systems. A culture may be compatible with a system another may not be.tl;dr: Cultures are chaotic (complex systems), while systems are abstractions or ideals. Please elaborate. Give an example for these two statements (if they aren't really questions). Could have been predicted after the recent uptrend.Well, nice time for day (or faster) traders. Pirate parties. I think they have a major problem in most countries for two reasons: Their name and the lack of a boarder concept. I like the German "implementation". Sadly where I live they don't get to this point, because they are not really politicians and are kinda afraid of taking positions. Yeah, I thought about joining to help changing this, but to be honest I think I would be too lazy to get involved.I don't think the Bitcoin and in general the "aware" community isn't big enough to make a change of the political structure. I know there are a lot of movements to raise awareness, but most of us aren't too much into raising awareness. This doesn't mean we can't do it, but in some way we are all geeks that spend most of their time where other geeks are and this is where we talk about most stuff. Also these topics can become kinda complex and nobody wants to be the weird, paranoid boring guy starting a political discussion in certain situations.I think we can still do it with things like simple, entertaining animations. We need to feed small bits that whet the appetite, so people think about stuff they maybe don't intend to think about, because they are hard. Socialism is one of these terms that can be defined in various ways. See for example socialist parties in various countries.I agree countries can be compared. There are a number of reasons. Natural resources and history are just two things that have a lot of influence. There are just to many variables that can have a huge influence. In fact every individual that ever existed in a country has a lot of history.And then take the Cuba example. Americas favorite example of communism. They manage to give education to US American citizens and are doing pretty well compared to other countries of the region, while there have been military (and covert) attacks from the only super power of the planet. Oh and there are still sanctions from the US. I don't think a country in Europe would be able to survive just one of these things. All these things can be read up on Wikipedia or more trust able sources. From that perspective Communism must be awesome.Still it is most likely not what Marx or Engels ever had in mind. Communist countries have always been dictatorships and bureaucrats usually have a lot of power, while Marx wanted it to be a way to make people more equal.Even though they are in relation to other countries doing pretty well and I guess the removal of US sanctions is the main reason for it to stay on development country level (and also why they pretty much have to hate the US) I think none of us would want to live in Cuba, because of being authoritarian, doing censorship, limiting lots of freedoms and well.. being a development country.What I want to say with this is that some countries are doomed to fail. Some European countries, like Germany for example also had a number of doomed to fail democracies. This led to to Hitler, WW2 and also caused a lot of step backs in the democratic/political development of the country.About China. When we let aside the fact that Communist and Socialist countries usually practice a reduction of many freedoms and that their only party calls itself communist. When we have a look on the stuff Marx or Engels wrote when they had their "ideas" then China really is the complete opposite of that. They could call themselves Chinese Capitalist Party, as in "Money is the only thing important to us" (which of course not talking about capitalism in economic way, but that capital is the highest good).This all leads to a lot of misunderstandings. I therefor agree with "I don't believe in systems". They just force people into something.Also it's hard to measure success. I mean if you literally enslave a country, like say North Korea or simply make everyone a mindless robot (a bit like in 1984) you can of course achieve certain things, make sure everyone has enough food, nobody dares to do anything criminal, etc. If you just measure something like production or GNP than in my opinion one does a huge mistake. Economy and political science like every other science should be used to enhance our lives, not dominate them. I think this is someone a lot of people from various views can agree upon. Nope I neither wouldn't consider transactions actual money. I mean come on, it's a difference when some company (bank) has a pool of money and you kinda own something like shares or when you have real money in your hands.I know, in some countries money isn't really considered to be your own anyways (it therefor for example illegal to destroy larger amounts of money).If you really want to own your money there are only two good ways precious metals (even though for example where I live these have to be coins or ingots - am not exactly sure how jewelery and various other things are handled - I guess it's about the amount - which also don't really make me feel like owning something) or something like Bitcoins. I know in fact the network owns it and in a way you also have shares, but at least it's basically about numbers and I could print them out, have qr codes, put them on cards, etc. all by my own. In theory I could even have it all in my head. It's still valid money I can transfer with whatever client software I want to use. This is much more I can do with all the other currencies, even more than what I can do with gold coins.I am looking forward to Bitcoin jewelery btw. Engrave it, shape a crystal or do whatever to embed Bitcoins. This would be really awesome and it would kill the "but gold can be used for jewelery" argument. Wouldn't that be awesome? Because the number of Bitcoin clients has nothing to do with how people value Bitcoins. Yeah, I also always complain about the people winning in lottery, have been born into a wealthy family or had more luck than I. That's so unfair.But seriously, any kind of business is a luck thing. See stock markets. There are various stocks, especially Asian where you can invest a very low amount of money and make a lot. Or lottery.I am a (somewhat) early adopter. I found the project on SF and occasionally had it running. It defiantly wasn't day and night. It wasn't even in auto start. Most of my Bitcoins have been sold way below 20 cent per coin. In some way I've also been an early investor (or from the current point of view, just stupid). I too part in some sponsoring and gave coins to people creating Bitcoin stuff. In the early days it was common to tip people for cools stuff, even forum posts. I think most money has been made by early buyers. People who were still creating full blocks with CPUs were so amazed when early exchanges offered 0.0014 or something like that for one Bitcoin, so they sold. Also the uptrend has been very slow at the beginning, still the curves on the graphs were steep, so when someone was afraid of a falling price they sold. These days I guess most of the coins is in the hands of such buyers. I don't care too much. I am neither rich in my real life nor in the Bitcoin life. It wasn't my intention to become rich. The reason I downloaded the software is that I want an easy, sane, decentralized and independent way to trade stuff. I hate Paypal and all the other companies and I love the approach of pretty much doing it yourself. It still is my primary reason to use Bitcoins. I don't have a mining farm, nor a system running all day. It's not what I want.About the thing that early adopters are rich now, just for running a small piece of software. Nope, it's not fair. If you want something fair, you should go for something like communism. 5.765 I bought some gemstones from c0ffer. Awesome person! (short review)
I bought them as a Christmas present for a good friend. They are pretty cool and defiantly worth their money. However the best thing of this offer is c0ffer himself. He has been extremely helpful and patient. Since I live in Europe I wanted him to send the present directly to the US making sure it will remain a surprise he's been so generous and even wrapped them. Also he offered me another packaging variant I accepted. All the time he was really nice and answered all the questions, informed me about what amounts he has and all of that. He even changed one of his offers to fit my needs. The package of moonstones, peridots, citrines and an opaz has then instantly been shipped and the recipient was impressed and extremely happy about the present. I can recommend this offer to everyone and look forward to buy again in future. They are really worth every Bitcoin. I am genuinely amazed.  Yep, that's basically what I said (or at least meant). But thanks for getting the quintessence out of it. Although I am not willing to accept the "there is no basis" part. Yeah, just sounded like a cool thing to say. Sorry for not being too accurate about it.Critical RationalismThe evidence is that a people, who could sit on their lazy asses switching from sleeping to eating and having sex do stuff like creating art (writing, painting, playing music, programming) without an interest to make money, that people starting at early age compete pretty much everywhere, even and especially in games when they could as well sit/sleep/fuck, that people contribute to a lot of things without expecting anything in return. Maybe and this is even likely it's a social aspect - they want to impress. Also who doesn't love the feeling of accomplishing something, even if it's nor for something like money? Lots of evidences. A huge thanks for the links.Also thanks for your replies. Folks like you are why I love this community! Scientifically proven to be wrong. The reason is that people get bored by stuff and hate to be told to do something, while they love to achieve something. You can see this when people play video games and invest a lot of time and money into this. You can see this in open source projects, etc. Besides that work (or achieving something) is a good way to impress. That's also why people who don't work, even if they have enough money are more likely to become depressed and commit suicide.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJcI am still not a socialist, not an American and don't think they are doing it better than socialists. I think they do it worse. The US has an awesome concept, because it's based on liberty/freedom, but sadly the people are being manipulated all the time. In a way the US are way more authoritarian, than China for example. However, the way this is enforced is completely different. Advertisement, religion, nationalism and the resulting society enforce a much stricter rule set than it would be possible doing top-down using a form of dictatorship or police state. If you change the society to enforce things on their own then you also prevent movements to change the status quo. If it's not just the government, than it's way harder to declare an enemy. In the US corporations are very strong, so power is spread. This may be the cause for the stability of the US. Don't get me wrong, I am not saying this is planned, it's more like the evolution of a society. Maybe it's even beneficial that this attitude causes hate by other and an enemy people like terrorism is good for nationalism. I guess there even is a demand for this. People in the US appear to need some kind of enemy and some strong men to face it. This enemy also justifies stuff like COINTELPRO, the PATRIOT act, even if they are meed public by the freedom of information act. It appealingly works pretty well and countries like China are trying to copy this strategy. Btw. in China you have one party, while in the US you have two, but in most areas they aren't too different from each other. It's the same in most Europe countries. They usually are like extreme centrists reflecting the intersection of everyone's thought and since people are not smart in every area, just in their own ones the outcome is pretty plain and often simply dumb. In China you have the big cities, that are a lot like the US, while the rural areas are more like the medieval and people don't care for them, because they don't know about it. In the US they are more like "everyone can achieve anything", so it's pretty much their fault. It's the problem if -some- (really, just some) libertarians and liberals, who think people would be equal and therefor it's everyone's business to care for themselves. I actually know that most libertarians and liberals think there should be institutions caring for people, but things shouldn't be enforced and it should be an institution, not the government. The thing is that such a society wouldn't really be too different from a socialist one. With that I mean that both systems would theoretically work well, if people would be informed or better inform themselves and actually care. I think most people mix up political or economical systems with society. A society defines how things are, not a small group of rulers. Of course, a small group may influence society, but pretty much everyone may do so, else we would still have kings ruling everywhere and not what people call democracies.tl;dr: Forget socialism, capitalism, liberalism, anarchism, nationalism or whatever -isms. It just prevents people from working together and doing the right thing.Want a proof this works? See Bitcoin. All kinds of people (whatever -ism they are) are here, because it's awesome and probably the right thing. It's the same for the internet and same for pretty much everything else. Just because things work, not because they are liberal or conservative. 2012-01-07 http://grooveshark.com/s/Nummus/2IclCW?src=5 What about the Wiki? Hehe, I recently had a long discussion with some other atheist about why you can't blame religion for stuff. Please don't waste your time with pro/anti-religion discussions. It will just cause misunderstanding and hatred instead of getting actually getting things done. You can tell anyone, no matter whether believer or not about why something is the right thing right now, regardless of hell or god. If you are an atheist (or agnostic or something like that) you can usually even say why it's right from a religious point of view or just argument that god gave you a brain to think. At least these things worked out quite well for me. And if you are talking to someone who doesn't care about anything why waste your time and energy? It's the same for believers. Better argue about doing the right thing instead of using god as an argument. After all that's what it's all about.I like that guy's point of view. It's very tolerant. Antipatentsong related to the Energy Crisis. No, I don't like HipHop or Rap or whatever that is, but I still like the message:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O2l5Z9T_x8A YouTube: dubstep windowsFunny! sadpandatech: I like the Zombie and the Savage Genetics ones, but I am not sure what they have in common. Hmm the fact that difficulty is very likely to rise could have a positive effect (as it will become cheaper to buy them). You all forget one of the foundation stones of the Free Market. The invisible hand. Originally, when the concepts of the Free Market was first described by Adam Smith, who was a very faithful Christian it was said to be god, but these days nobody really knows who regulates the Free Market. My guess: The Manipulator.  To be honest I still don't know what really defines dubstep. There are piece where I can't see any connections, stuff I hate and stuff I really hate.Not sure about the OP's piece.Usually the songs I like are remixes of other songs I like. I like how covers pretty change the perspective. Also one is able to kinda learn to listen to songs doings so. It's how I got into some genres. Yeah, now we know what we do with our computers when mining Bitcoins isn't profitable enough. We use them as some kind of perpetuum mobile to solve the world's energy problem. Renewable energy from computers FTW!  Always near to the loss-margin, but in general above it. @gmaxwell: Thanks for your reply. Really? The thing is that the example I gave actually destroys the system by reversing transactions and stuff. So I think this would be more like a technical attack and therefor would therefor actually destroy Bitcoin instead of just cause fluctuations in the market. Or did I miss something?You can optimize costs for example by buying a larger set of FPGAs, ASIC, get cheap energy. I know there are people getting basically energy for free, but these mostly seem to be very small scale setups in households or like a small server room. The reason for using so many adjectives was that I wanted to make clear that many smaller advantages in different areas could become very serious if you are doing this large scale.It most likely isn't a serious problem right now, but should Bitcoin become more widespread and serious organizations like a company (especially something like a bank or something like Paypal) or a government would attack Bitcoin small advantages in hardware, energy cost, etc. could pose a serious threat. It's an investment like taking over an other company so it doesn't become a serious competition. Of course Paypal is not the only company that would may not be a friend of Bitcoin, so organization could even join up.This is similar to the fear of the point where transaction fees are the only reason to mine. The question is whether Bitcoin will still be able to remain independent and not have a very dominant institutions that advance the blockchain allowing it to manipulate. I think the mining contractors are a very good way to prevent this, but currently (please don't consider that an offense) they are not really established or professional and one often asks how far you can trust those people. I know it will take a while. It's some for of evolution. The best will survive. It just hope that there will be a large group, so they don't have too much power - not because of reversing the block chain, but because they most likely will have a huge influence on how things will develop. I was referring to that variant. He had to choose between them, but I don't think any of them would have won or even reached the final round, because of being either slow or insecure.That's nonsense but then you say I am right? I am confused.A compact implementation would mean that it is easier to get to an optimal implementation and so it is easier to get a very efficient hardware. This means it is harder for a small group to outperform the rest. Or did I miss something?Btw. CubeHash is just an example. The scrypt based currencies made me think about benefits that certain algorithms could have. As I mentioned at the beginning of this thread I am not saying anything should be replaced, it's just about thought experiments.Oh and while thinking about that I have become a bit worried about Bitcoins future. If an attacker would begin to mine Bitcoins in a very sophisticated, optimized and efficient way (I am not talking about breaking SHA or anything) and sell them cheaply, probably even at a minor loss this would at a certain point make it unprofitable for others to mine. This would be way below 50% of the network's hashrate, but would cause people to stop mining, because of being inefficient. I know there are people who have interest in Bitcoin and would still mine, but with a big bunch of people leaving an attacker would be able to create even more Bitcoins making his attack even more efficient would have it much easier to get past the 50% to mess the network up. So an attacker doesn't have to get to the 50% right away. It would probably be way easier to start a a lower rate and cut out the others.An attacker whose aim isn't really making money in first place, but to destroy Bitcoin could do such a thing and therefor wouldn't really require the 50% right away, correct? First of all I am not saying you should switch to anything. I am just curious what other think about it. Maybe it's also interesting for people who want to create another FooCoin currency.I have been following the SHA3 challenge since it started and always liked CubeHash, because it's simplicity. It's heavily optimized for both security and simplicity. However, it didn't receive too much love, because it was slow. Since this isn't really a huge problem for Bitcoin or similar currencies I think it would make an awesome algorithm. Security isn't a problem and it's simplicity makes it easy to create a good implementation. This would probably make it harder for a very experienced person (or any kind of organization with enough money, power and know-how) to create a custom implementation that outperforms everyone else.http://cubehash.cr.yp.to/ Because a decaminute is fixed, while a block is variable.Let's say it's dynamic, sounds even better. It adapts to a ten minute frame, but sometimes, when you like write a test in school or try to defuse a bomb you can have even more time, while home time might come earlier.And that are just examples on how a block based time system would make the world a better place! How do you think god created the word on seven days? There wasn't anything so blocks took a loooong time, you know? On the other hand he is god and therefor his computer can solve blocks like instantly, which explains why millenniums are nothing to him. See, it all makes sense?Blocks are something completely natural and self-adjusting, just like free markets. It was a pun about Bitcoin saving the world. Like "GPS wouldn't work anymore, so war would be harder and everyone will leave in piece." Been right:
I think it's a psychological thing. If it possible to keep it above for like 24 hours the prices may settle at least at 3.2. The isn't a huge opposition in form of offers in the 3 area. We may even go through to ~4, but I doubt it will go above 4 USD for at least a few weeks, because that's where mining becomes actually profitable. So the price would quickly come down again - for a while at least. So, another spike. 3 and climbing! More good news. Bitcoin becomes stronger again.Blocks avg. per hour: 6.21 Sounds like a solid idea. A Bitcoin Foundation for developing and promoting Bitcoin maybe funding projects. I always liked how the Perl Foundation did this, but you can take any other example, be it Mozilla or whatever. I think NLnet would also fund Bitcoin. They support lots of projects that are similar to Bitcoin.I am not sure whether a video is really needed. I think it's much better to have Bitcoin mentioned in a lot of places instead of putting up one big video and then people don't like it or only people who know Bitcoin are going to watch it.You could only care for press and media in general. Maybe someone from outside creates a documentary or reportage about Bitcoin. Since Bitcoin will bring the dawn of a new world making anything better I think we should start measuring the time in blocks. It would make everything a lot funnier and also more scientifically correct -everything is relative, time is relative, everything is based on quantums, so everything is random.So how many blocks is it until Christmas?Oh and the New Year's countdown would be much more exciting!Hmm, maybe I should build an Arduino based block clock. This thread was about... *sigh* Hey, I really like how this discussion remains serious. About hoarding... Well, it's just that I like Bitcoins. I also mine, like I always did and just for fun, with about zero profit, if I would sell them. However, really nothing too serious. Just to give the card something to do, while idle and the system is actually powered on. I keep the coins or buy stuff, but I don't "pay out" in the traditional sense, because I want to actually use them - after all that's how I found this project in early 2010. That's what I meant, even if it's probably wrong to call this hoarding. I'll make it short and just throw in a link.It something I suggested when everyone was talking about the bursting bubble: What comes afterwords? Well, since the price seems to settle and we aren't in an endless fall anymore I wonder when the "Slope of Enlightenment" sets in and how long it will take until we reach the "Plateau of productivity".My guess (and it's really just a guess of someone without any background on economics) is that this will take a few more years. I think the market will continue to grow, as it always did (regardless of prices or users jumping in and out) and this will cause hoarders to buy stuff. I consider myself to be a hoarder and there are more and more interesting products coming along and I buy more often, especially now when it is Christmas time. At least that's true for me as an early adopter, someone who is using Bitcoin because he likes the concept, ease of use, decentralization - well a piece of freedom. I think it's also nice for merchants, who gain customers just because of offering stuff for BTCs. At least I am such a customer, but I guess that's a story for another forum.Anyways, what are your thought son this? I doubt there will be a serious drop. It won't go below 2. If it does so, I will buy tons of them. Can someone get me a list of countries without debt? I didn't say that (does it already cause hallucinations?), but please enlighten me and tell me where inside your computer you find >radioactive< material. I had to laugh. xDGod, what kind of computer do you  have that 1)produces dust and 2) makes it radioactive.You could sell this technology to operators of atomic power plants, so they don't have to filter these materials from shitloads of mined earth and stuff.Also how do you prevent all that radiation coming from your computer to cause cancer in first place? I am an idiot. Spent too much time learning Graph theories. xDMidterms...Thanks!@ElectricMucus: I am talking about people like you! This is NOT an image board. Please stop to litter this thread with meaningless posts, leave the Bitcoin community if you are just here to be annoying. Get a real life. Damn, stop with those stupid graph theories. They show what happened, the past and not the future. Start thinking, if prices could be predicted everyone would be getting rich with gold, stocks, whatever.Price will go up when demand is higher then the supply at a given rate and down when it isn't. What happened before doesn't really matter. The only thing it may have is some psychological effect, but if it would be about that every stock and every currency out there would have died at some point.Compare it with the upward trend. According to a chart from the beginning of the year it would have gone up forever. And now you predict the price will go down forever?Well if you really believe so, go on, but if you have some brain I urge you to use it. There are more than enough idiots out there. I hope there are still some sane users.Seriously, the thing that hits me most is not when the price for Bitcoin is going down, but when I see how the community gets overrun by mindless morons who just want to make bucks to buy video games or something like that.Yeah, I know. That comes with a growing economy and Bitcoin being famous, but think back. Wasn't it awesome when everything was still small, friendly and cosy?  Of course the price is climbing. There hasn't been a crash, but a spike caused by a Bitcoin boom (because it was in the media).At the beginning of the year the price for Bitcoins was way below 1$. Then, with Silkroad and stuff it had that big boom, because people talked about it. This caused interest and lead to a spike. Before that everyone said that we would probably reach Bitcoin/Dollar parity this or next year. The year is ending and the Bitcoin multiplied. So in reality is that it is climbing quickly, not slowly. On Windows (7 x64) 11.9 completely fixed the issue regardless of intensity you are using. Support for Humblebundle.com would be awesome. We need a Bitcoin betting website where speculators can actually bet on prices and link their bets. I guess a lot of Bitcoins/wallets were lost (or even deleted) in the early days, when you didn't really care about a few hundred or thousand coins.Since people are lazy I think there are still Bitcoins that get lost. Hard to tell how many. Since Bitcoin is different in certain ways it's hard to predict what will happen (well, actually all price developments are hard to predict, else it'd be super easy to become rich). However, I think the very low price (when compared with what energy costs for the average person) is maybe an indication for a stabilization. Also I say price, because Bitcoin is valuable in different ways. What we see right now doesn't mean that Bitcoin will die. If you think Bitcoin - when we speak about making money (not using it!) - is a bursting bubble I can say it looks so. You may be right. However, that doesn't mean Bitcoin dies. Do you folks remember the Dot-com boom? That bursting bubble?What happened can be read on Wikipedia, but what is more important is that it didn't kill the IT industry. It just corrected thing and stabilized their values and the market got rid of bad companies. This is just what Bitcoin needs.
It will!What's happening is normal. You can make money doing something, then everyone joins, then the bubble burst and after that it will be stable.See the famous dot-com bubble. First of all: I do not know how a psychotherapy works, so I don't know whether this would actually make sense.However, a friend recently talked to me about convincing someone to start a psychotherapy. It was about a person, that appears to have depressions, being suicidal and stuff. She told me that he pretty much convinced him to do so, but now he is afraid of his image, losing his job and things like that.Wouldn't it make sense to offer these kinds of therapies online, in a non-trackable way? Who knows, maybe this would even solve the problem with pedophiles.I thought about a chat. One could use Tor. One could also use VOIP or even video, if it's not about absolute anonymity. No idea, how many people would be interested in this, but from what I see there are lots of depressed people with the crisis and stuff.Would this work? We, are the ...%! xDActually that what comes with trust. Trust in Bitcoins, don't sell or even buy them and you will also have a lot of them. I don't think it is a good thing for a currency. On the other hand it is similar to other currencies, so it looks logical.We need more merchants. This could change it, but not if the merchants take Bitcoins and instantly sell them. The people who have so many Bitcoins are the ones who run Bitcoin based businesses or simply buy them.Also I wonder how many of them might be from lost wallets. A nice fraction of it could also be from early adopters and lost/without an owner. For the BTC price to rise we just need another politician talking about Silk Road. The junkies will buy coins and the price will fly. Yay!   I pay one BTC for a Frozen Synapse Bundle gift code that includes the Frozen Byte Bundle as well. This currently costs $4.63, which is less then the current TradeHill and MtGox prices for a Bitcoin, so you make profit. Besides that you can choose how the money is divided and for example give it all to EFF. http://www.humblebundle.com/ In a way it's nothing more than an IQ test a test for common sense. ;PWe would need something like that for politicians.   A tip: If you want to get rid of these site report them here:http://www.google.com/safebrowsing/report_phish/ (will block it in Firefox, Chrome, maybe others)https://www.phishtank.com/ (a very open anti-phishing community) I disagree in this case, because I am talking about pretty much solving the energy problem, which means there is enough for everyone. I think it is a good thing if the state handles stuff EVERYONE needs. Compare it with water. In countries where there is an unlimited supply you receive it for for free. Not really an unlimited amount, but more than you would ever require for private use.For a _big_ energy project that would basically be beneficial for ALL humans - it is one of the biggest problems in is close related to the climate - it would make more sense to work together. Maybe you can also compare this with stuff like GPS. I mean if we think about Space-based Solar Power (Japan works on this) then I don't even believe there could be a capital market. It would most likely be too small and therefor would become a monopoly. Also if we think about systems that require a lot of space or for example a coast it would be better to give the people (voting the government) control over this. I know, you can also vote via money, but that's often very unfair. Especially in case of power plants. Everyone living far away from a power plant doesn't really care about environmental damage, but for cheap energy. A government is usually better in even out these things.However, it REALLY depends on many things, like the technology and stuff. Maybe it should be a bit like most telephone networks with the government caring about infrastructure. I don't know and I didn't really think a lot about it. The thing I worry about is that technology with a lot of potential is overlooked. This really shouldn't happen. I think it would be more like that:"Pay Button" with an URL like bitcoin://<address for THIS transaction>/<price>Then a popup comes up, where you can enter a password for your wallet and then you can verify your payment. Amazon knows what you are paying, because the address has been generated for this transaction.Well, maybe it will be based or HTML, hay if Bitcoins succeeds it could even make its way into HTML. By that the HTTPS certificate also proves that you are really paying Amazon and not a phisher or something.Of course this doesn't have to be an URI. Thanks to HTML5 we have tons of way to implement this. Think about Microdata! All this is pretty much possible right now. We just have to implement it. Shouldn't be too hard. Will probably do so later.Also we need more libraries for Bitcoin. So every developer out there can think about and implement nifty things. The only real problem appears to be energy. It is a bit like a currency (well, it is in the science fiction genre). It isn't just the availability of automation. Sometimes machines even get replaced by people, because they are cheaper and from an economic POV there is more supply than demand.So if you want to make things better that's probably your best bet. Without wanting to go into conspiracy theories it is clear that a lot of people who benefit from a low supply and high demand of energy fear to loose power (money). I don't even think this fear is valid, because if the whole society that profits it's usually better for them, because it means new technologies (entertainment, medical, ...), more automation, more free time, etc.It would be an important step to start investing resources into the future of energy supply. There are MANY serious projects that could potentially "solve" (create a MUCH bigger supply) the problem. Japan for example contracted a company for solar-based solar power. There are multiple companies waiting for first deployments of their technology. Also there are way more serious projects for wind power, that are ready to be deployed. Not just these ineffective (land and offshore) wind farms. Than there many different ways to use waves, the difference of pressure, temperature, ... in the depths of the ocean. The wind and partially the shore based power plants also have the huge benefit of not requiring a lot of maintenance. They work pretty much without anyone caring. All these projects are real and are offered at trade shows, so I don't really understand why no country invests into these things. I mean if just one of them can be successfully deployed it this will be a huge improvement for countries - in many ways. Yay, prices going down. Time for buying again!  All these things are true for all hard currencies. Well, for 1) I don't know think I know what you mean by that.But 3) and 4) also happens to other currencies. See High Frequency Trading. Some governments think about stopping this, but they can't really do so. The only way to stop it would be some kind of fee (tax), which makes it impossible to do so. Well, Bitcoin has transaction fees. This probably makes it more resistant against something like these things. Just another nice benefit of Bitcoin.  Uhm, sorry... I didn't mean it would go up fast and just stay there.That was my main reason to say people should relax - whether it goes down or up. Buying and selling too high or too low means just causes an unstable market and unless you are a day-trader just means you will cut yourself. Yes, day trading is nice. It is easy and one can profit with relatively low risk. It also evens out the market, but I really want Bitcoin to become more stable. I love this currency. It has pretty much everything I want a currency to have. One can simply do a few clicks and it arrives. That's it!Paypal is ugly, has fees, can easily be tracked and if it's against their rules (or if they just see it fit), they will close you account and mess up everything for you. Also all these online currencies can easily be kill switched, which really sucks and scares me. They force you to trust single entities and usually these are folks that just want to make money and do everything to get it from you. I don't want to trust someone like that.I want to use Bitcoin for my day to day stuff. This would be awesome. Of course I am realist enough to know that this might take some time. We are still a huge step away from that and yes, it can fail, because everything can fail. See Euro, see USD, see dictatorships, ...But when I installed Bitcoin (I found it while browsing Source Forge projects) I didn't do so because I wanted to make money. Bitcoins weren't really offering anything for it. I had a few thousand Bitcoins and traded them for like 20 USD, just because I thought it was a nice thing to use this currency for actually buying things. It's still the only thing I want. Easy, decentralized, open, awesome! Reminds me of these:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6QNwkR4HU8Qhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=07-cpKE9bUwhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eim4cpBmShAhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nsH1atj4Tsghttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-lBIETTmSXUhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2P0k0Z2oLG4Same stuff in a more serious theme:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Z9WVZddH9w EVERYTHING GREEN AGAIN! Probably(!!!) buy as long as they are still cheap...Or wait to sell low and buy high....   I find it funny. New people (who haven't been here for a year or longer) must always have heart attacks.RELAX!Prices go up and down. That's normal. You most likely weren't here when it was .50 -> .1 -> 10 -> 20 -> 30 in a very short time frame, while it took ages to reach .50. Then there was someone who threw in a lot of sell orders (to rebuy them at a cheaper price) and lots of people were scared and the price dropped. Also because Silkroad went down, the forum was under attack and stuff. Just be relaxed, use Bitcoins to directly buy goods, which usually is cheaper for you and has a positive effects on the economy (meaning the value of BTCs will probably rise). Also, if you relax, you won't have a heart attack and that will make your health insurance and the people who like you happy.  Everything GREEN!  And as we all know benchmarks are flawed. No, seriously... the problem with the benchmarking is that values aren't something defined. Take bread for example. It can be worthless, because you don't like it and live saving, because it prevents you from starving. I don't think there are really more extreme differences, yet this is true for a lot of things. Also there are a lot of things that are more or less impossible to value. Oh and there are markets that are mostly based on psychology. In general things are a lot about imagination, which makes sense, because the world is based on what the people's brains imagine.These things are interesting, because it makes markets, values, etc. perfectly valid, reasonable and add lots of logic, while it is still imagination. It's similar to persons playing any kind of games. There are rules and you can analyze stuff. You can program a computer to play again, you can create theories, find paradoxes and explore everything (has been done with all kind of games) while still being pure imagination. This is something a lot of philosophers have been interested in. The fact that everything is pretty much an interpretation/imagination of data that your sensory organs provide to you brain (but you can't even know that for sure) has even lead to the question for existence and the famous "Cogito ergo sum" by Rene Decartes, who was a mathematician btw.So a lot of things can and should be questioned. The fact that something is in a certain way doesn't necessarily mean it has to be that way. Also the theory determinism was (possibly!) wakened by quantum physics. ESMPPS, PPS probably or something P2P based. Oh and of course paying out transaction fees. (ad based?)Automatic payouts are also something that's nice. ABC comes close, but appears to be a bit buggy, else I'd mine there.Oh, an integrated market would be awesome!It's funny. I'd love to have a payment system like Bitcoin to trade Bitcoins. xD Why sell low?
I think you are saying it in the wrong way. "Protection against brute force" is simply a stupid thing to  say. Ever heard of key strengthening/stretching? I guess this would be a better method. Increasing the effort for a brute force shouldn't be described as "protecting from a brute force" (which would mean that you have something that prevents a brute force). You could also switch to an algorithm like CubeHash (it dropped out of the SHA-3 competition for being to slow, but it's relatively simple) if you want to do this. Salts are against rainbow tables. @Xenland: He just thinks that you probably have no idea about salts, which appears to be true. This isn't about terminology.@defxor: You shouldn't wonder about the lack of knowledge. There are a lot of people who join the forum Bitcoin, because it sounds like easy money. What really worries me is that some people could actually share information in PMs that they shouldn't. This also isn't good for the operators of the forum. I am not sure whether this is true for the US, but in many parts of Europe the operators could receive a lot of legal threats making it very vulnerable to a take down. Still there are tons of better ways for communication than a forum if it's somehow important. So one shouldn't send important stuff via PM and generally keep in mind that an account can be "hacked". Don't rely on a forum for secure authentication!  (or sign your messages and encrypt PMs) I would do the same.@viperjbm: I just understood what you referred to in your first reply. I just think that there is some kind of psychological barrier that would make people buy at least small amounts of Bitcoins, so that you would need a lot of suppliers to still have the price to not rise. However I don't know what will actually happen. That's why I formulated it in the form of questions. I strongly disagree. They are defiantly important for now.What if someone wants to build up a serious business with Bitcoin? He needs to live, eat drink, get the resources for whatever he does, wants to go on vacation some time, ...So if there were no exchanges all of this needs to be available in form of other Bitcoin accepting business right now, which is highly unrealistic. It's not like the whole world would suddenly start accepting Bitcoins. You need and exchange to simply cash in or out. Consumers also need this. Well, it's basically the same.And now some speculation:I think what's happening right now (and happened over the last year) will make Bitcoin more stable and therefor usable as currency. I am not sure what it means for its distribution. On one hand a low price and many Bitcoins in the markets (exchanges) can be good for newcomers, but it also allows people to horde them.Well, will see whether I am right or wrong with this. Erm, did you read what I wrote?You don't actually need exchanges. Of course they are good and important, but there are other ways to sell and so Bitcoins are not without value.Damn, my post was very short and simple. Still you weren't able to read it.I never claimed it would be different.The essential question is whether a point where there is no one willing to buy (and of course someone needs to sell it) Bitcoins. If you think Bitcoins goes down/crashes completely ask yourself two questions:Would (a big number) people suddenly give away Bitcoins for free?Would people at some point pay to get rid of Bitcoins?If the answer is no then Bitcoins will never ever be worthless. RALLY!!!(I am liberal) Well, it depends. Either that or for keeping things private which is what Alliance or WASTE are good for. You aren't really anonymous when using waste. It's more like a virtual private network where data can be transferred in a secure (encrypted) way, but someone outside knows whom you are connected with and can possibly analyze the (encrypted) data you transfer. So the attacker is for example able to guess what you are transferring by looking at how much traffic you generate. Also you are not really anonymous to others inside the network, because you connect to them. If you create an open network that everyone can join you loose all benefits.Yes, but it depends on a lot of factors. First of all the admin of a server can always watch you and since data isn't encrypted (unless you encrypt postings) people watching know what you are downloading. Of course it's hard to have an eye on all servers, but your ISP knows everything and the server operator too. Also messages you write can usually be used to identify you if you don't taker lots of precautions. You can operate your own server of course, but this partly takes away the benefits of Usenet, especially when you make a private one. Also it can be costly if you have to store and transfer all the data.I have been using Usenet for a long time and I don't know why people always say things like that. Historically you didn't even need to have an actual internet connection to access them. HTML is a markup language. I guess you mean HTTP which was preceded by Gopher, also younger than the Usenet, which you can already guess by the fact that NNTP is described in RFC 977 while Gopher is first described in RFC 1436.You are right with that, but using other protocols, like Freenet (FMS provides an NNTP interface, but there are many other applications), I2P (Forums, Bittorrent, ... ) provide all the benefits while just being a little slower. Also they are easier accessible. Have you ever tried to find an open news server that provides access to binaries? And if you roll out your own with your own groups and stuff, even if you have the money for server, storage and traffic it can be hard to find someone to pull from it.Again, I think you are right with what you say and NNTP is very nice, but most things can be done easier especially if you want to remain anonymous and/or secure. NNTP wasn't designed for these things. In a lot of Newsgroups nobody will talk to you if you don't use your real name (or what looks like one). On Usenet one depends on server operators so it isn't really a solution if you want to hide traces. Just wanted to point out that you quoted someone else, not me. I agreeI strongly disagree. Giving the power to governments will cause even stronger "centralization" (of power). One doesn't even need to think about North Africa to see that a government controlling a medium of communication is a bad thing. I'd rather trust someone who provides this service for money than someone who is potentially addicted to power and wants to have control about the people (be it with good or bad intentions).If you want to give the power to the people give them the technology in form of something like B.A.T.M.A.N. or Netsukuku.Communication/transfer of information is important and therefor should be available to everyone (and yes, of course it can be abused, but all tools, the whole life and everything can be abused). @BitcoinPorn: You could use Oneswarm, Freenet, GNUnet, ... (see the link).Darknets are good if you already have people you can trust. Since they have to trust in both their technical skills and that they won't turn on you this can be quite hard for most people. @OP: I understand what you mean when you say the internet isn't decentralized, but if you just say it like that it is confusing. I mean you defiantly can't call the internet centralized either. Maybe the question is what is decentralized and how much it is decentralized.Also there are projects like this. I hope one of them emerges into something bigger and a lot of people start using them. The most interesting ones seem to be B.A.T.M.A.N. and Netsukuku, with the latter one appearing to be 'dead'.RONJA requires different infrastructure. It would be awesome to have something WLAN based, because they are cheaper and built in everywhere (Smartphones, PDAs, TVs, ...).I really would love to see such a project to succeed in a way that everyone becomes independent from any kind of provider or regulator. I see dead people! Creating a Darknet with random people doesn't really make a lot of sense, as it will be an open/public net which is the opposite.In a Darknet you need to trust other people so just peering with random people kinda defeats the purpose. I instantly reported it everywhere, so most browsers, toolbars, etc. should block it now. Time for some conspiracy!I guess there are a lot of rich people and institution with serious interests in quantum computing because of what it means to security. DARPA always had some secret research in various fields for example. They have virtually unlimited funds. However with the ability to really break (as opposed to just break it by the means of finding something better than brute force) cryptography you are powerful enough to care about Bitcoins or financial institutions anymore.
ATTENTION!Just received an MtGox phishing mail:The link goes to: http://mtgex.tk/users/blockedDisable HTML in emails and better never click on direct links, instead keep Mt.Gox in your bookmarks. We need Open Source drivers with OpenCL support!  That's bad. Earlier this was a problem limited to Windows (because of some lib IIRC), right? So there is no other workaround?EDIT: Oh and one core? Two cores are in use here. (I see, two threads...) Hmm, I just noticed the miner (at least .6 and .7) have a lot of CPU usage (looks like it maxes it out for both cores) on Windows 7. I remember it has been around 10-20% in earlier versions. I am not sure whether it is related to a driver upgrade. There is a difference between GPU0 and ALL hashrates. It looks like it would use my CPU. I tried adding -t0, but it doesn't help. Got something new.PANIC! PANIC! PANIC! I receive this with the latest code.Code:[09:19:17] Error in pool api for abcpoolConnecting...Traceback (most recent call last):  File "D:\bithop\work.py", line 66, in jsonrpc_call    url = "http://" + info['mine_address']KeyError: 'mine_address'[09:19:18] Updating NameCoin DifficultyConnect returned I will simply join a nice distributed computing project that allows my to use GPUs. I also think it is good there are alternatives. This proves that there won't be just someone making a Bitcoin clone, rendering the currency (or whatever you call it) worthless. Instead it proves that Bitcoins have value. These things should be described in a nice simple way. First on the wiki, later a video.And with simple I mean _really_ simple. Like we need a really simple way to securely use Bitcoins.I really wish there would be some kind of bank or something like Paypal. So you can have an account, transfer money without requiring the Bitcoin client, security measures, like (i)TANs or smart cards, customer support, etc. This would make it easier for people who actual want to use the currency and don't know a lot about computers. ED needs someone to add these memes.SELL! SELL! SELL!BUY! BUY! BUY!RALLY!CRASH! Then we should simply wait for the next optimism+ phases to sell, I guess? It heavily depends on what better means.Also I am not sure if you could still call it a country if something like that happens.I don't think an economy or a certain ideology or believe can make something better. In the end it's about what the people do. If they are like "Whoa, I am a Socialist. Lets kill everyone who isn't" it won't be any better. If someone says "Whoa, I am a Socialist. Lets work on the problems our society has." it will be better.You can of course replace socialist with Liberal, Anarchist, Muslim, Christ, ... you name it.I already stated this in another thread, where someone asks whether Bitcoin will solve all problems we have. It always depends on how people act and use what we have.The funny thing is that this is what most ideologies (and by that I mean what a person believes to be true not what various people call liberalism/communism/...) seem to have in common when you ask the right person. People in general strive for doing the right thing, but with naming ideologies it just causes people to work against each other. See day to day politics.I know, you didn't ask about ideologies, but I already answered it I guess. It won't magically cause anything. It depends on a lot of factors, so things can be hard to predict. It also depends on what most people in that specific country think. So I guess the outcome would be completly different on each continent.It's like some people believe everyone would somehow become a violent murderer if there wasn't any police, but that's nonsense isn't it? It's like most people in a chat are nice, even though they are pretty anonymous.I really like to talk with people who think their ideology is the best. They really think about how they can make things better, but it makes me sad that even though they actually share the same goals they build some kind of wall between each other. Just working together could make things better. I mean everyone knows that we should globally work on stuff like clean supply of energy. See the internet or the ISS. Both are great projects that couldn't be solved if it had been tucked to a certain ideology. vServer-Kosten mit den Kosten von Paypal zu vergleichen ist ganz großer Unfug und das bei weitem nicht nur in einer Hinsicht. Allein der Gedanke, dass Paypal für IPs bezahlt ist vollkommen falsch. Die haben ihren eigenen Block. IPs sind grundsätzlich kostenlos. @hugolp: Thanks for your explanations! Has always been a source of confusion to me. Ist dann aber trotzdem kein so großer Unterschied zu Demonstranten vor ein Geschäft oder eben eine Bank stellen. Wenn ich eine Scheibe einwerfe ist die Scheibe kaputt. Außerdem kann ich mich dann verletzen.Wenn ich einen DDOS mache, dann ist was hin oder wer kann sich wie verletzen?Im Übrigen finde ich ebenfalls, dass DDOS nichts bringt. The funny part about this picture is that in Europe both would be considered to be right. Liberalism, is considered to be a right wing ideology in Europe. The Republicans would be considered to be a populist, nationalistic, conservative, christian and far right party. If they would be part of the European Union the US would have sanctions because they don't care for certain liberties, human rights and because they always had huge problems with their budget and therefor endanger the Euro. Of course they wouldn't be part of the EU in first place. Because of the death penalty and how they treat human rights. That's why they just have an observer status Council of Europe (not directly related to the EU). Just get me wrong, this isn't meant to be critique. I am just curious about how an US citizen thinks about these things. Bitcoin appears to have a community that cares about and respects different ideologies and philosophies. Therefor I hope to receive a neutral answer to these questions. Do they consider Europe to be left and do they really think democrats are left? What do they think about stuff like human rights? Oh and what I never understood is whether they still consider Russia or China to be communist states. Hacken hat mittlerweile viele Definitionen. Programmieren, ein Blinkenlights machen, programmieren (sh. Kernel Hacker), einen Hack basteln (also einen quick & dirty fix für ein Problem), Hardware oder generell Dinge hacken (anders verwenden, als vorgesehen), Sicherheitslücken finden und sie reporten, Sicherheitslücken finden und sie für eigene Zwecke ausnutzen (wobei das laut Jargon File und einem RFC1392 eben Cracker sind), Computer/Technik kreativ nutzen und Kunst kreieren, ...Dann gibt es noch Biohacker, wo das Spektrum von Genanalyse über Selbstmedikation und Selbstmodifikation (auch Grinder genannt) geht und deren Ziel es vor allem ist diese Technologien für alle bereitzustellen.Ein Hacker kann also auch ein Enthusiast in einem beliebigen Bereich sein oder jemand, der stark improvisiert. Die ganze DIY-Szene, die ja teilweise der Open Source-Szene sehr nahe steht verwendet die Bezeichnung ebenfalls.Das Hacken, das von Hacker kommt (im Unterschied zu der Version Holz hacken/zerhacken) stammt außerdem vom Namen eines Modelleisenbahnclubs am MIT, also kann man auch nicht sagen, dass man von der originalen Bedeutung spricht.Es gibt ja eine Menge solcher verklärten Begriffe. Siehe Anarchismus. Ein Anarchist kann ein Philosoph sein, jemand der keine Autorität mag, ein Pazifist, ein Terrorist, ein extrem Linker, ein extrem rechter (Anarchokapitalisten), aber häufig wird es mit Chaos gleichgesetzt. Ist ein wenig, wie mit Kommunismus. Für die einen eine Diktatur, für die Anderen das Gegenteil von Kapitalismus und für wieder andere China, das keinem von beiden entspricht. Ich selbst habe in der Schule gelernt, dass es ursprünglich die Idee einer klassenlosen Gesellschaft ist, womit es wiederum nichts von dem ist und eben dem Anarchismus nahe kommt.Begriffe werden eben sehr unterschiedlich ausgelegt. Rechts kann auch Nationalismus oder Liberalismus bedeuten und für viele, die ich kenne schließen sich beide Dinge gegenseitig aus.Ich würde DDOS auch nicht als hacken bezeichnen, aber vielleicht sieht es ja jemand als Onlinedemonstration und meint, dass es eine interessante Form ist seinen Unmut auszudrücken, vor allem weil es kein Botnetz war und sieht es deshalb als hacken. Aber, was die Medien sagen muss sich ja immer groß anhören, also besser Informationen selbst recherchieren und vor allem Dinge nicht allzu leichtfertig glauben.Und es ist ja egal, wie viele mitmachen. Es ist trotzdem doof so einen Verein zu unterstützen - vor allem wenn man mit Bitcoin etwas viel besseres hat. Also lieber damit handeln! Perfekt!Alles Geld nach humblebundle.com (und so gleich EFF und Spielentwickler unterstützen) und Konto schließen. Wouldn't it be better to split up the config? One for usernames and passwords and one for describing the APIs. If usernames aren't listed in the config the pools should be disabled. I just thought it might be better to have my miner switch to directly connecting to a backup pool, if there isn't any work coming from bitHopper for whatever reason: out of work (with backup pool disabled), bug, crash, down, because of upgrade, ...
Just to be sure. When I disable the backup pool it means that no new work will be pushed if there isn't a pool that's good to hop onto? Or does it mean it will stick using the last one or something like that? I didn't say it can't be obsoleted by something better. It's just that the OP argument sounded like "because stuff is open and therefor there will be lots of Bitcoins". Facebook was better than MySpace in certain way. Maybe it just looked better or something, but people don't simply switch to something new and if there is a new Bitcoin it doesn't mean that Bitcoins will have suddenly zero value.A. This barriers come to existence. I agree, they might be not high enough for an alternative butB. Why are alternatives such a huge problem? I mean as long as there aren't tons of them it really isn't that much of a problem. See Namecoin.I think that possessing and utilizing Bitcoins means that one has to be objective about them. Else there could be a big loss.And there are also a lot of "Bitcoin is doomed" guys. Most of them just want cheap Bitcoins, else they wouldn't waste their time writing nonsense. One really shouldn't overestimate problems or their potential influence on Bitcoin. While I agree there are lots of hurdles and Bitcoin could be better in many places it's currently(!) does well. Of course there could always be more Bitcoin related projects, services, businesses, but these are things we can work on and it really isn't that bad right now. The stable price is a good things for businesses and I'm sure I am not the only potential customer. Even if Bitcoins will be transferred into Dollars or Euros eventually creating a Bitcoin accepting businesses most likely result in a more customer and the risk isn't that high. Most of the things you described actually happened to hard (as in hardware) currencies. Yes, Bitcoin need a bigger market to become more stable. The thing you can do as developer is making things easier, probably providing some services, etc. Yes, it's still risky and most people know this, but because it's risky you can make a lot of money with it. A bit like stocks, but I wouldn't really compare them with stocks. So we need to make some cunning entrepreneurs aware of Bitcoin.As for simply creating another currency doing the same. Why would anyone use it? Yet another search engine like Google, yet another microblog, like Twitter, yet another social network like Facebook wouldn't be successful unless they provide something very special.Bitcoin is heavily distributed and so what do you mean when you say "someone with more power shows up"?Also the statement that a new BitCoin would make the original one worthless isn't true. Namecoins didn't make Bitcoin worthless, like the Euro didn't make the Dollar worthless. Why should it? Refixed?  It's funny, everyone here loves to define terms. Like "Is Bitcoin a currency, a fiat, a good, the Messiah, ...?"Forget about making money! Bitcoin needs to survive, so we have an endless source of funny and interesting discussions! And (non)logarithmic charts! lol, I even expected a reply like yours.   arsbitcoin has '=' instead of ':' and the spaces around the colons in general are a bit inconsistent. It's like a 500 EUR note is not just worth the paper. It also doesn't describe the European economy. It's like stocks don't describe a company's value. It only describe it's current rating. Think about the financial crisis and the huge drops of stocks and currencies. It's not like anything like energy consumption went down.There are just people (and sometimes machines) who say they will give you one thing for another. This doesn't require any reason. In fact it IS very individual. If you like a certain kind of music and simply don't like another one you will value them differently. If you think pink sweaters look stupid they probably won't be worth anything to you. If you are blind you will not buy a book or think a lot about what lamp you'll buy. Think about social networks. They have been around for decades and then suddenly Facebook becomes famous. Stuff similar to Twitter also existed a long time ago. And what people want (and value) depends on their culture and their entire life.That's also a problem with just thinking about supply and demand. If ten people on the whole planet want something it doesn't mean there will be anyone producing what they want. On the other hand there are very rich people who will pay a lot maybe someone will make it or they'll produce it by themselves and not pay anything. Besides that people also need to know about stuff, so demand can be produces. That's how the ad industry works. Often they create demand for something people would have never needed. Sometimes people want stuff because other have it and sometimes people don't care about stuff, because anyone has it anyways. All this has influence on how much people want something and therefor what they are willing to do/pay for it. This creates the value.Supply and demand is correct, but IMHO that _very_ simplified way of describing it, because people get a certain picture that can be very far from reality. Besides this there are people who are simply generous, etc. Yes, to even out (very) short performance drops. Would it be possible to add a multipool strategy that's similar to load balance, but with the first one having priory? So the second one is just active when the first one for some reason doesn't have enough work, for example because of latency. It takes time to spread and with price fluctuation it will. What's important right now is people to enter the market by accepting Bitcoins. The price is very stable right now, while hard values, like EUR and USD aren't that stable so actually Bitcoins _CAN_ be very interesting.It's properties are very interesting especially for trading virtual goods and services. So Bitcoin based web host or VOIP are great services to offer. I think they are also very safe services. You will most likely have any big losses. It is also important to have serious businesses.And of course making things more easy and accessible would be good. If someone has enough knowledge, especially about security a Bitcoin based Paypal alternative would be a good idea, because it would make things easier for people who want to use Bitcoins. I am sure one can make a lot of money doing so. Both for transaction fees and from people buying additional Bitcoins. An Acer Aspire ONE 150 (the ones with the bad Atoms). Back in... I don't know. It generated a block every few hours! Three a day IIRC. I don't have the wallet any longer. That was when I found Bitcoin by accident while looking for something else on SourceForge.But I sold them way before a Bitcoin was worth a dollar so it didn't make me rich. Lesson learned: Believe in Bitcoin. I intended to join your pool, but somehow I can't connect to it. Using DiabloMiner for example it says:ERROR: Cannot connect to mining.eligius.st: connect timed outSimilar messages appear when using cgminer. Instead of or in addition to --disbale what about just evaluating the existence of username and/or password. If it doesn't exist ignore it.   I think it would be a good idea to include the configuration from another file. Maybe just create a bithopper.conf.example, so you don't overwrite an existing one when checking out. Also with more and more pools being added it would be good if it'd ignore non existent ones. Maybe they should also be removed from the main file so one can simply add additional pools by creating a files inside a pools/ directory. Oh and of course a --quiet and a --daemon switch would be nice additions. I think it will raise, because of the difficulty. But that's just a very wild guess. If I would be able to predict prices I would be very rich.  Folks, I like your image size idea. Restricting images just looked so straight forward. Of course more customization (size, animation, ...) wouldn't be bad.  Looking forward to this. BELIEVE!  What the hell are you talking about? You do realize that HTML 5 is not finished by now and while some parts of standard came very fare there are many parts that are simply to do. Or did you just talk about the markup language itself? Sorry, this isn't meant to be an offense, but it sounds like you don't really have an idea about the way the W3C works (these days). There are _tons_ of proposals from many institutions potentially changing a lot of things, that's why I called unpredictable. Of course, it doesn't mean everything will be a module of HTML 5, but this doesn't mean they won't be implemented. Actually it's great that Bitcoin solves (or at least tries to do so) a number of shortcomings of other currency. I don't really think anything can simply solve a problem by existing. The most important factor in most cases is the social one. Even if a technology exists it doesn't mean it will be used. There are so many examples to illustrate this. See condoms for example. They are very available and there is a good reason for using them. If they'd be in use more often there wouldn't really be a need for so many charities to even exist, but many people don't use them for social reasons.So it's a tool one can use to make things better. To make this tool used it has to be simple to use and people need to be informed about it's benefits. Since most people (for a good reason) think about its short time benefits people should first of all be informed about them. It's like the internet. People access it for e-mail, chat, Wikipedia, porn, ... They don't do so because it is a good way to provide information to pretty much everyone or because of what happened in the north of Africa. Also it is sometimes very hard to predict what a technology will be used for. To stay with this example the Internet, as most of us know was originally intended solely for military, later for universities and research institutions. The same is true for GPS.So I guess the truth is Bitcoin is a tool with lots of potential one should unleash and exploit as much as possible. This way we will find out what capabilities there are. This is so great, my stomach hurts! Do you have a BC address?  
Thanks, fixed.  Hi,usually I am against forbidding stuff, but IMO images in signature are a waste of traffic. Especially when they are big, meaningless or just another way to display text or advertisements. Most people don't really care about other people's hashrate and it isn't too hard to look up Bitcoin prices.Yes, I know I could disable them, but lots of people use signatures for useful stuff. Signatures, links to their Bitcoin related projects, etc.So I am interested in how other people here think about this. Another small, but very important difference: No C&C Server, meaning no herder. Sorry, but that's nonsense. Bitcoin is actually a better way to save the environment than paper money is. I agree. I sold tons of Bitcoin when on coin was worth less than 0.01USD. Bitcoin is important as a currency, too important to simply abuse it as a way to become a millionaire.But as always, don't trust me by my words. Think for yourself! Have a look on who actually are the big players, who earns lots of BCs every month and when they appeared. Great, thank you for sharing your thoughts.  Using 100% renewable energy without any CO2 emissions here, but I am thinking about moving to other sources. Renewable isn't enough, it should have minimum (negative) impact on nature. Currently I am trying to figure out which source is the best to achieve this. Uh, now I understand what they meant when they called Bitcoin a hacker currency. What do we learn? Use #bitcoin-otc for trades!Or at least think about whom to trust.I think an exchanges and other should at least describe what they are doing for security. Great journalism, indeed!   bitmarket: 18 USDbcLRUSD: 18 USDFor EUR there don't really seem to be that many exchanges, so it will vary even more. bitmarket: 18.0 USD Yay! Oh no, Generation "I am 1337, I can do Linux"  (Just joking!)Just joking. Educating people...I am nut sure whether that's really a good thing. I think that people would be much more "educated" if they'd have to learn on their own. It's just an unproven theory though. And then one could write a script using the victims own GPU power to brute force the wallet's encryption! Bitcoin isn't of value? It causes research in so many fields. Usually the opposite is true for money. So it's maybe to most valuable currency in existence. The second chart shows one month. What happens after the burst? The dotCOM stuff makes me think of Facebook ant Twitter. Especially Twitter has lots of investors. Does this mean it repeats over and over after the burst? Then it'd be a good idea to wait until the next bubble emerges.Also couldn't we be at some point after 1980? Some math about passwords:We start with a password using eight characters form a - z (no capitals).26^8 = 208827064576This happens when you also use numbers.36^8 = 2821109907456This happens when you add common symbols (! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + - . , / [ ] ^ < > { })48^8 = 28179280429056This happens when you add capitals.52^8 = 53459728531456This happens when you add one single character26^9 = 5429503678976For most people adding capitals is easier and therefore more secure than adding categories.If you want to create REALLY secure passwords on can easily remember there's diceware. So everyone can use it? I mean the reason for money is so people can use it to buy stuff. Without any distribution money can't be used. Okay, maybe evenly was a bad word, but a currency is more valuable the more is is being used. So I actually meant it should not be concentrated at one point.Sorry for that mistake, I hope you know understand what I mean. Spreading would possibly be a better word to describe what I meant. So you created an account (that's the complete history, right?), just to put some coins there and about two hours later that money disappeared? I am sorry for my distrust, but with hat kind of title and TradeHill in your signature I think it all looks somewhat suspicious to me. I am always thinking about how Bitcoin can be evenly distributed. Do you have any ideas. Else poorer countries will become even poorer.EDIT: Can someone move this to Economics? Don't forget The Paranoid! And the P2P-Fanatics...In other words: Don't forget ideological reason.Some times they have a lot of influence. Yay, cheap coins again! Seriously, just think about where it has been a while ago.I think one of the reasons for this "correction" (a correction for now, I don't think it will be that low in a few days/weeks/months) is that it became important to people using it as a currency (or commodity or whatever you call it) to have a stable value. No offense, but I guess it's harder to grasp for some Americans because the USD still is some kind of reference currency (currently! even though it MIGHT be just a matter of time until this changes), but there are markets for currencies. No, I don't mean places to trade them, but reasons for trading them (foreign currency loans to name an example). On a market new goods (currencies/commodities in this case) have be valued. That's why some people call it a crash or a price explosion, while other call it a correction.All markets are a lot about fear, but we have seen that. When someone talks about a crash or a crisis in real life it's exactly the same. It might be reasonable to sell shares of a small company, which maybe won't survive as long as the share still have some value, but it's completely stupid for people to sell for example Google shares when the price is lower then it should be given the fact that they will survive and start growing again. It actually is the best time to buy. Hmm, but you just have to look at some kind of stock market chart and scale it to something like five years.
Install ATI driver.Install ATI Stream SDK.Install Phoenix.Use Catalyst for overclocking (Performance->AMD Overdrive).Underclock your RAM with the same toolSimple, easy, efficient.As for dummy plug, I guess your card comes with DVI->PCI-Adapter. Should work. (Off Topic) That's great a law outlawing potential compliance to another law. Thanks for telling me something like that exists.  No, there are two reasons for this. Neither determinism, nor truth does seem to exist. I know, it's a short answer, but you could write books on that and I don't intend to do so.And then there are two other reasons, but I am not sure whether they apply to everything and I guess that's not what you meant when you wrote your question.Values are also a lot (even more than one might think at the beginning) about psychology.Values are not always about numbers, even when it comes to very basic goods. Yep they are more on that track, while in the US they are more on the terrorism track. I think that's a general trend in the western hemisphere.But hey, who cares about mainstream media these days? Get the facts yourself! Is there some betting office?Oh wait, it's called speculation! I also think it will go up a lot, because the crash made Bitcoin even more popular. But maybe it means people wait for another crash. Not sure.. Damn, it takes to long to move money.   @Cluster2k: I think you forget one thing. At the beginning of this month the price was similar to the current price. Don't worry and don't panic. Don't listen to people crying BUY or SELL and just think on your own. No, really do it! Why would it crash and why wouldn't it? Did you forget something? No? Okay, then you know what to do. Don't worry about it too much. We will maybe start at a price similar to a few months ago which shouldn't be a huge problem and once it's over everything will be back to normal. I mean difficulty didn't change and it's not like BC is broken or something. Some people selling at cheap prices will learn a lesson and then we're back to normal. BTC will be more currency like and next time you'll be able to say we had this and survived it! Not true. There is a limit.So only physical stuff has means something? Companies traded on stock market or wisdom don't mean anything and of course art like music or in PDFs, applications also don't mean anything?What would happen happen if I'd encode my wallet so I can print it on paper? Would it be physical?How does e = m * c² fit into this?These are serious questions btw., they are not sarcastic. I am completely open and unbiased. It's not at zero and there was a time when gold wasn't interesting at all and still there are people who give a fuck about gold. Also gold had a much boarder acceptance since global trade began. There weren't any kids with no knowledge who got a heart attack because of a chart. Last, but not least we are trading Bitcoins, not gold. Some people call it a currency, others call it a commodity or both. Who cares? There isn't a logical reason behind all of this, just guesses about why people act in certain ways.We can compare, but we can't look into the future. Tomorrow Bitcoin may be near to zero or back at 40USD. Same is true for next week or next month.It's not like suddenly everyone found out that Bitcoin won't to it. People are just reacting to a coup by a few people. I wonder whether this was their intention. It's nice, because you learn a lot about markets, economy, psychology, ...Hehe, I wonder whether this could even affect real world economy when everyone sells or returns video cards. Crash of real life currencies. xD Actually I think it won't stop there. It will go into the negative -10$ is realistic and you'll have to pay to get rid of it!   Or even grow or stay at a lower or higher price. Depends on asks and bids. The usual stuff. Maybe the people selling at lower prices will learn something and don't do it again. People are using a good situation to lower the Bitcoin price, but basically nothing changed. Just some people (successfully) influencing supply and demand by spreading fear. This is a good way to make money.You can now choose between ignoring it, join the people making money or sell everything in panic. Everyone will tell you something different. It's fun to watch and you can make a few bucks.A few people wanted to make some quick money and sold their BCs cheap (and in a sudden movement) to cause a panic and be able to buy them at an even cheaper price probably even selling them on another market at a high price.What do we learn from this? The market is a bit small and most users are inexperienced. Nothing to worry about. The price isn't even as low as it was just one or two months ago. Try to make some money or ignore it.Making the forum unreachable was maybe another way to "artificially" lower the price even more. +1 [SARCASM]Yeah, I know people and banks decorate their safes with gold bars in them and of course gold is just that expensive, because it looks nice.  And of course it is not because it is a hard to get, limited resource that people therefor trust[/SARCASM]I know it is used for lots of stuff, like jewelery and electronics. It's just that's its still mostly used as a store of value, even in form of jewelery. It's in peoples safes most of the time. You've got a few grams (at most) of it in electronics and decorative stuff. In most jewelery it isn't pure gold anyway. Also gold on it's  looking that nice. which is a highly subjective anyways, so nothing to justify the price. It also isn't as important as it was a long time ago, when it was maybe the most important status symbol. These days you aren't looking like an important person, because you wear gold.I know the comparison isn't perfect, but I think it is at least as good as the comparison with a regular currency is. It is limited and it becomes harder to get. It can be used for stuff like Namecoin and maybe someone finds a way to make it look aesthetic. Mining isn't the only way to make money quick and fast. Speculation is another good way and better proven in real world. Virtually everyone who has been around for a while is sad, because of not buying coins when they are cheap.I want to see success stories, so non-computer-nereds join the system. I think Bitcoins can be compared with gold, because gold is mainly used for training and mining gets harder, because it is finite and the density is lowering. That's why I opened another thread to compare it with gold. Price drops usually appear after peaks. That's what peaks are all about. What we see here for this reason is just a peak we reached. So, everyone complains about the Bitcoin chart looking like you'd make lots of money. Bitcoins are a finite resource that can be mined at a growing difficulty. You know a similar resource? Gold!(right now we are close to the origin (left) oft the chart)This seems quite unlikely for a resource like gold. I mean it's mainly used as a trading good. There other usages of gold, but most of it is stored in safes. Oh and there are other usages for Bitcoins too, Namecoin for example.So what we can find here is just a peak. There is a drop in price. Of course, we all know this, but this just means Bitcoins are cheaper right now and not that it will crash to 0 USD, because at that point the risk is low and at least at that point everyone will buy. The only interesting question right now is how far it will drop, so people interested in Bitcoins can buy them cheaply. I think of we want more users to strengthen the system we should advertise this price drop as it is a good time to buy.I hope that you'll now have a better sleep. If you are still convinced Bitcoins aren't worth anything, feel free to give them to me! 
Want to see a similar chart?http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=price+of+gold I think it is both, because all currencies are both. That's what the whole cash market is all about. The only exception is the "with my computer part". Currencies are speculation, that's one of the main reason for them to be such an interesting market. Take foreign currency loans as an example. I guess most buyers use them for speculation at this time, but that's just because Bitcoins aren't established by now.See the anti-deflation people and think about the Euro. It had a huge rise at the beginning and recently there was this crash. Lots of people made a whole lot of money, because they knew a few simple things:Europe or the currency won't simply cease to exist.Greece won't either.The price is still WAY higher than it has been just some time ago when everyone was afraid of the high Euro causing a recession, because it'd stop import.China and the US are even artificially lowering the price for their currencies to increase income.Same thing for the financial crisis. Every sane person knew the best thing was to lower the prices for stocks and currencies by scaremongering (just like what you see in this forum right now), while buying the cheap stuff. There is no real reason behind this. It's not like all big corporations would suddenly disappear. Well, smaller ones maybe, but all shares dropped in price, even the ones from huge corporations. Yeah, of course they'd make less money for now, but of a comparatively short time period you'll see a huge growth. Just watch long-term charts, where you can see other recessions.But actually this is basic stuff everyone should learn in school. It is a natural thing for a healthy(!) market that it always changes between recessions and booms. There is always some cause, like a trigger, but that's because the whole thing isn't perfect, else markets wouldn't at all be interesting for speculators.So actually recessions are a good thing for Bitcoin. They are opposed to a real, permanent crash. All people know there isn't an infinite growth, but over the long run there is something that comes close to it. This will at least be true until all Bitcoins have been generated.It is a bit unclear what happens afterwords, but we'll see it by then. It still takes a while until we reach that point. Whoever started this recession: Thanks!It's way easier to make money buying cheap BTCs and sell them at higher prices than it is setting up new rigs. I don't even have to leave the desk!There is also the nice side effect of lowering the difficulty. It's like a stock exchange, buy cheap, sell at high price and become rich only that it is way cheaper, easier and less restrictive than on a real stock market. It feels like an easy computer game.I don't even have to add to this, because all the inexperienced people here are overly nervous and paranoid. So it is a great chance for people who have been using BC for a while now (and like me sold them at a low price, because they have been paranoid about the graphs) to use their experience and become rich.Also, is the bottom reached? I want to invest even more money, but not at once, so I have been splitting it up to lower levels. Half of it has already been used, but this price drop doesn't appear to be over now.  Is there a good reading on this topic or some common practices on how low the buy-price should be?I read some stuff, but I'm not sure about Bitcoin, because there are quite a few factors which aren't relevant when it comes to the Bitcoin market.Oh and don't worry! I am not that rich, so I won't be able to buy everything. There are lots of inexperienced kids, so I think there should be enough cheap Bitcoins for all of us.EDIT: To all others. Please don't destroy it! Don't offer too much money. I know you can make loads of it if you are fast, but we can keep this low prices for a bit longer!The golden rule for making money: Rely on the stupidity of the masses, it will always pay off! It will crash like everything crashes. It's a basic economic rule and then it will reach new peaks. Why? Because sometimes there are more buyers willing to pay more and sometimes there are fewer buyers who don't want to pay good prices. That's called a market!  Funny, will we now see a thread like this when someone wants to buy some coins?  Should we even play with that when the pool supports LP anyway? You can't just calculate PSU_WATTS - HARDWARE_WATTS.Watt = V * AAnd it is NOT automatically, evenly distributed among your hardware. So your GPUs can draw too much, even if PSU_WATTS > HARDWARE_WATTS. I wouldn't really recommend using WASTE unless you want to contribute to it, as development is stalled.But there are many alternatives.Oh and one could also (ab)use Git for this stuff. Just setup a Cronjob to automatically get updates from others. It'd would also be easy to create a script, as there are nice interfaces for pretty much any language. It's not () any more. You shouldn't really trust the hash rates on the web site, they are just a guess. I've got the same problem. I am using the EU pool, I guess. Bitcoins.lc also has bad luck, also way past the 95% probability. No luck today, but I am sure we'll find a vein sooner or later.   You know, what they hide in Area 51?The ULTIMATE MINING RIG!   Well, still would have been great if someone else did it.Yes, I'd cash out my 12k BTC now, because I'd know what I'd want to buy. No, it's not a mining rig. I'd also quit mining, but still advertise and use Bitcoin, as I really love it. Yep!Current round duration: 1 day, 4 hours Just wondering, wouldn't it speed things up if pool operators would use something like Redis (possibly using Unix sockets instead of TCP) or Tokyo Cabinet instead of MySQL? The data stored in the database isn't too complex, so SQL looks like a waste to me. More, if you'd change to Bitcoins.lc for example. The website also shows "Estimated earnings", so you'd know it after mining there for a while. Hey!Since everyone is using JSON-RPC, be it for BitCoin or Mining Pools, like Continuum Mining Pool, I think I should make you aware of Service Mapping Description. This would make it easier to build clients or shells. QnV0IGl0IGlzIG9wZW4gc291cmNlLi4u Makes me think of Flash based ads. Always thought about them as unethical and theft of both CPU power and traffic However, one doesn't have to activate JS and one doesn't have to visit such web pages.It is very inefficient anyway, so I don't think there would be a lot of people using a JS based miner on their web pages. Yeah, maybe with the HTML5 stuff coming along, but that's just talk about the unpredictable future. On the other hand that's what BC is all about and most of us would be rich if I had predicted how BC evolved.  I don't think so. It's not too different from the GPU stuff I guess. The same fears. As long are enough people doing FPGA stuff there won't be a crash or something. I also think sooner or later someone will publish an open source version. Of course there will be people doing it from early on, but in order to not have the prices go down and to prevent people from losing interest one simply needs competition.
I guess it would be neutral.For all of you, who don't know D&D, Wikipedia has an own article on alignment. Yaeah, also paysafecard here. Just a 20USD one for a few thousand BCs.What did I learn from that? Never trust in what you learned in school.  Hopping between all chaotic alignments.Which version of D&D added nihilism? :p Ouch, it really hurts when you realize you sold Bitcoins that would be worth more 70 000USD now for 20 USD a year ago. Anyone else here who know how it feels?Or anyone here happy to have done so? +1 for startssl  Is there a way to make DiabloMiner more "efficient". Looks like it sends request every few seconds. I could set a higher ask rate value, any suggestion on a good value?Oh and I also wanted to point out xxx isn't my miner. Just used it in my reply, because I thought it would be generic (like: put in what you want). View your profile at:http://www.bitcoinpool.com/users.php?u=xxx...is wrong, it is user.php  Yes, this fixed. Thanks!Unfortunately soon after this the PSU of my new dedicated Bitcoin mining system died  Thank you, I've redone everything and now disable Crossfire, but now I just have one GPU listed when I start m0mchils miner. How can I access the second core?aticonfig show an output like yours, so there should be two GPUs available. Strange, it would make more sense if there would have been only one device before I disabled crossfire. I haven't really an idea what could be wrong now. The SDK is 2.1 now btw. Still no success While searching most people said this is driver related and you currently can't disable Corssfire on the 5970, but it looks like some people did. Want to join the Fun!BIND is ISCCompiz is MITEnlightenment is BSDFluxbox is MITGHC and Hugs BSDHaiku is MITlighttpd is BSDLLVM and clang are BSDLua is MITncurses is BSDnginx is BSDOpenSSH is BSDPuTTY is MITTcl is BSDthttpd is BSDTor is BSDvi is BSDWebkit is BSDX11 and most related projects are MITMost implementations of Smalltalk are BSD or MITMost implementations of JavaScript, as well as jquery and YUI are BSD or MITBittorrent became successful, because they were MIT, libtorrent (base for a big number of clients) is BSD Hi,is there a way to disable Crossfire, so I can use the second GPU?'aticonfig --adapter=all --cfd' doesn't seem to work. I tells me to restart X, but'aticonfig --lsch' tells me CrossFire is still enabled.I also can't get it working by simply starting two independent processes with -d 0 and -d 1Are there any special settings (worksize?) I should take care of when running this card?Oh, I am using Fedora 14 (x86). What's the hash rate for 6970? So EUR is via mail? (fee?)Could it also be done via bank transfer? Would it also be possible to get such a system with something like FreeBSD or NetBSD?  Maybe you also want to use -addnode option, which results in a non-exclusive connection, so it still does connect to others. I use this option, so a connections are established faster when there is at least one other node available in your network. I think miners should retry connection every now and then if the master is not available, so you don't have to care if it is temporary down (i.e. while updating). Same here. Got an ATI card and latest (10.11) drivers. Also Win7 64.Code:error: function          "amd_bitalign" declared implicitly        sharound(D,E,F,G,H,A,B,C,R(37),0x766A0ABB);        ^ Like Tor, which is also a daemon with a protocol for GUIs and stuff. Defiantly prefer this. Especially for stuff which is meant to sit in background waiting for commands (sending Coins) and keeping data up to date as well as maintaining connections. Got the same problem.-w 256 says 3210932050 khashes hereWould be really nice 
