Update:I was able to download the block chain and the transaction showed up with over 400 confirmations.Thinking about this problem, it would be nice if there was an option to recheck the blocks that have been downloaded after a wallet restore instead of using up so much network bandwidth. Better yet, a fully automated wallet backup and encryption / password protection would be nice for the average user.I got a little nervous when I thought my whole savings account may be lost. OK. I have backed up and restored wallets before but now it is not working.1) Sent some coins to a clean install of a bitcoin client running version 0.3.19.2) Got one confirmation and closed client down.3) Copied the wallet.dat file to secure location and deleted it.4) To test a recovery I started the client up with no wallet so it could create new wallet5) Waited for at least one connection6) Closed client and copied backed up wallet over the new empty wallet to test restoring from backup7) Status says 0/unconfirmed long after getting 8 connections.Do I need to re-download the block chain?I remember doing this kind of backup a few months ago with no problem under version 0.3.8. Any info would be appreciated. @mtgox> Thank you for fixing this. I got my coins. @jgarzik> Thanks for clearing up where this regulation came from. I just assumed that it would be the same 3000/day limit for everybody but I guess FINCEN says different if you are not a MTB. For a while I have been annoyed that mtgox is restricting how much LR we can withdraw from our accounts to $1000/day. I have emailed and explained that LR and BTC should not be subject to US banking regulations and even if he wants to play it safe the quantity for cash withdrawls before a currency transaction report (CTR) is $3000 not $1000.He has not responded to my email and it has been 3 days. I would have waited longer but today I found something I must tell you all about before someone else gets their money tied up like me.Today I was shocked to find out that mtgox is also restricting the amount of BTC that may be withdrawn. He is making a combined limit of $1000 USD per day for both BTC and USD. I was only able to withdraw about $750 LR and 750BTC.I have over 90,000BTC in my account and it will take me over 20 days to withdraw it even though it took less than 10min to deposit it. The big problem I have with this is that there was no announcement or warning. I did not agree to the terms of restriction when depositing money. In fact, there was an implicit agreement of trust that a bitcoin exchange would follow the spirit of BTC being unregulated and free money.I would not even expect this kind of restriction from a regular bank. They at least tell you up front that you will not have access to your money except on their terms, but they give you those terms before you deposit a dime.I am willing to give mtgox the benefit of the doubt since he has done so much to promote the bitcoin community. Perhaps he is on vacation for Thanksgiving and did not get my email. Maybe there is a bug in his program. Whatever it is, I hope you traders on mtgox will stand with me and encourage mtgox to return our money to us at once. What are your -frames and -worksize arguments like? Also what -askrate interval do you have?I did get two cards working (had to use the crossfirex cable and enable crossfirex). The thing that baffles me is how to get the same performance out of two cards together as I got out of two cards seperately. It seems if i set the frames very low like -frames=2 I can get one card to do about 97% gpu capacity. The other card, however drops to 60-80%. When I make the frames high like 256 it does ok but any other program on my machine seems to have a higher priority and will make poclbm.exe run slow. Currently the best compromise I found was --frames=25 --rate=3 --worksize=256 --device=1 --askrate=30 On a single core processor machine this produces about 90% on each card average but has wild swings.For a while I thought the issue was my MB or CPU not feeding the data fast enough but I tried the cards in my gaming machine with a quad core and dual x16PCIe slots and it still was about the same.Any ideas? xxmalouinxx, what OS, SDK, and driver version are you on?I can't seem to get my two cards to both run at the same time under Windows 7. Any hints? Sorry for the late reply, I have been away for a while.I found my problem and it was so simple it is silly. I had not yet enabled the -frames switch to crunch faster. I still don't know why one card was faster without the switch but they are about equal now.As for the mhash @ 850mhz I get about 265mhps. They are the same.8.14.10.0779 Catalyst 10.9 on Windows 7 64-bitI would not expect them to be different because one is a clone of the other. I have two machines that behave totally differently under this python client.They both have the same hardware and OS:AMD Semperon Single core1GB RAMASUS ATI Radeon HD 5850 overclocked to 950mhzOne machine does 300-305mhash/s and stresses the gpu to 94-97%The other does 282-289mhash/s and stresses the gpu to 89-91%How do I increase my slow machine to get the extra 20mhash? Is there a command line way to tighten the processing loop?
