What VISA card? My reading of the site indicates that you can get a straight paypal payment from it (I see no mention of any VISA cards at all in fact). You can get domino's gift cards or just a straight paypal payment. The fees are listed on the "prices" page:PayPal payment (under $50)    3%    You pay no PayPal feesPayPal payment ($50 or more)    1% + $1    You pay no PayPal feesDomino's Pizza gift card    1%    between $5 and $100I've not used the service myself, but I've used CoinPal (the sister service) and have had a good experience with it. That's normal. The from field was only used for (now-deprecated) IP-based transactions. Regular p2p transactions (the only ones used today) can come from many addresses, so there isn't always a good way to display them there.If you really want to know, you can look up the transaction on blockexplorer.com and you can see which source address(es) it came from. Not sure it'd be wise to post bitcoin coredumps online publicly, as it seems likely there might be private keys in them. This may not be obvious to everyone. Adding GPU mining would add a lot of dependencies (OpenCL framework, etc) to the bitcoin client that 99% of people will not need. Therefore it makes sense to split mining into it's own application with those dependencies.Also, remember that the bitcoin program is a financial program. It needs to be secure. The more bells and whistles added, the larger the attack surface and the more danger of subtle bugs creeping in.Of course, mining should be explained - but there's no need to tease every user with the option when a tiny fraction of them will be using it. Those users can easily fetch one of the many miners available. Unfortunately Dai's situation is probably not too uncommon. The bitcoin site still guides new users to enabling "generate coins", and the software has the tickbox in an obvious place in the GUI. Reading the site, it's not surprising people think bitcoin is all about mining.We should really try to write a new introduction for the main bitcoin page that puts less emphasis on mining and more on the trade aspect. Also, remove mining from the official client! I've seen silk road has been mentioned in several places (*chan boards and reddit) in the past few days. While it's always hard to pin a reason for an increase or decrease in price, it wouldn't surprise me if this was related.Regardless of your views on the trade that goes on there, that is a market with a lot of demand, where bitcoins have a clear advantage over other currencies. There are several implementations of the network node code, but to my knowledge none implementing wallet handling. If anyone knows better, please let me know. If his code doesn't offer that feature, that's a 'technical restriction'. I'm sure he has many things to do except work on feature requests from you. I know I can think of more important things to implement in mtgox.What? You had signed an NDA agreement? Why did you not state this earlier? If you went through the trouble of signing legal paperwork, why didn't you make up a contract to ensure the safety of your money as well? You are clearly lying here.Also, how did you sign this? Obviously you did not meet mtgox. Probably not through mail or fax as you've been asking for contact information. So please do inform us, how did you arrange for this NDA with MtGox?Obvious criminal is obvious. Presently yes, but not in the future. Transactions have a cost (in disk space for participating nodes), so they have to have a cost. When the value of a bitcoin increses, the fee rules will be changed so they make sense for the amounts being worked with. MagicalTux is in japan, I wouldn't be surprised if it takes a bit longer for him to reply these days. He's been on IRC though, so he's fine. Bitcoin stores your addresses forever, so they will always work. Generating new ones is mostly to make it a bit more difficult for others to track your finances. I do not have personal experience with them, but FWIW ArtForz (one of the larger bitcoin miners) has said on IRC that out of 2 of his cards with these coolers, both failed after a few months of mining. Based on that I'd be wary of them. Around 0.1USD/kWh from geothermal and hydroelectric sources. Actually Iceland would be a good place for a large-scale mining operation, as you can get electricity quite a bit cheaper if you're a company buying in bulk (especially off-hours). Try sipa's graphs at:http://bitcoin.sipa.be/ No, the answer given by jib was completely correct, it is completely impossible (not merely "hard" or "too much work") to build such a protocol. I would be very surprised if he stopped generating after those initial blocks. Why would he?I guess he has a few 100k stashed away. He deserves it for his work.  Great service mndrix.+1 for NewEgg gift cards! They refuse non-US credit cards so gift cards seem to be the only way to order. If you start selling them I'll definately be a customer.  I might if you have the A5/1 tables http://reflextor.com/e100torrents/Metered internet sucks balls. I've already gone over my monthly quota, so my 100Mbit/s fiber is throttled to 64Kbit/s. Hehe, I miss newlibertystandard's 0.005 rates...I spent ~8000 btc (almost all I had) on a month's rent of a VPS the day before the slashdot. Not my best financial decision so far given current rates.  Hi all,I'm throwing this out there because I'm not a windows guy, but I've been asked:Is it possible to mine btc in the background with an ATI card (suppose noone is logged in)? I know on linux with ATI drivers X needs to be running.Anyone have good step-by-step instructions for this?
